The Project Gutenberg EBook of The American Missionary -- Volume 36, No.
3, March, 1882, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The American Missionary -- Volume 36, No. 3, March, 1882

Author: Various

Release Date: July 15, 2018 [EBook #57510]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMERICAN MISSIONARY, MARCH 1882 ***




Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, KarenD and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by Cornell University Digital Collections)









[Illustration:

VOL. XXXVI.      MARCH, 1882.      NO. 3.

THE

American Missionary


¡°THEY ARE RISING ALL ARE RISING, THE BLACK AND WHITE TOGETHER¡±


NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION,
ROOMS, 56 READE STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

Price, 50 Cents a Year, in Advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Entered at the Post-Office at New York, N.Y., as second-class matter.]




                             CONTENTS.

                 *       *       *       *       *


  EDITORIAL.
                                                         PAGE.
    SO FAR¡ªPAMPHLET NO. 7                                  65
    PARAGRAPHS                                             66
    ARTHINGTON MISSION¡ªA PARALLEL                          67
    LATEST NEWS FROM REV. H. M. LADD                       68
    MAP OF MISSION IN EASTERN AFRICA                       69
    THE SLAVE MUSIC OF THE SOUTH, BY REV. GEO. H.
      GRIFFIN                                              70
    ROUND THE WORLD                                        72
    REVIVAL NEWS                                           73
    GENERAL NOTES¡ªAfrica, Indians, Chinese                 74
    BENEFACTIONS¡ª¡°MISSIONARY PAPERS¡±                       76
    A BLIND SAMPSON, BY REV. A. J. BIDDLE                  77


  THE FREEDMEN.

    TWENTY YEARS AFTER FREEDOM (with cuts)                  78
    EMERSON INSTITUTE, MOBILE, ALA., BURNED                 80


  THE INDIANS.

    CHRISTMAS AT SPOKAN FALLS, W. T., ETC.                  82


  THE CHINESE.

    CLIPPINGS FROM FORTHCOMING ANNUAL REPORT
      OF OUR CALIFORNIA AUXILIARY                           82


  CHILDREN¡¯S PAGE.

    BOY LIFE IN CHINA                                       83


  RECEIPTS                                                  84

       *       *       *       *       *




American Missionary Association,

56 READE STREET, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *


  PRESIDENT, HON. WM. B. WASHBURN, Mass.


  CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.

    Rev. M. E. STRIEBY, D.D., _56 Reade Street, N.Y._


  TREASURER.

    H. W. HUBBARD, Esq., _56 Reade Street, N.Y._


  DISTRICT SECRETARIES.

    Rev. C. L. WOODWORTH, _Boston_.
    Rev. G. D. PIKE, D.D., _New York_.
    Rev. JAMES POWELL, _Chicago_.


COMMUNICATIONS

relating to the work of the Association may be addressed to the
Corresponding Secretary; those relating to the collecting fields,
to the District Secretaries; letters for the Editor of the
¡°American Missionary,¡± to Rev. G. D. Pike, D.D., at the New York
Office.


DONATIONS AND SUBSCRIPTIONS

may be sent to H. W. Hubbard, Treasurer, 56 Reade Street, New York,
or, when more convenient, to either of the Branch Offices, Rev. C.
L. Woodworth, Dist. Sec., 21 Congregational House, Boston, Mass.,
or Rev. James Powell, Dist. Sec., 112 West Washington Street,
Chicago, Ill. A payment of thirty dollars at one time constitutes a
Life Member. Letters relating to boxes and barrels of clothing may
be addressed to the persons above named.


FORM OF A BEQUEST.

¡°I BEQUEATH to my executor (or executors) the sum of ¡ª¡ª
dollars, in trust, to pay the same in ¡ª¡ª days after my decease to
the person who, when the same is payable, shall act as Treasurer
of the ¡®American Missionary Association¡¯ of New York City, to be
applied, under the direction of the Executive Committee of the
Association, to its charitable uses and purposes.¡± The Will should
be attested by three witnesses.

The Annual Report of the A. M. A. contains the Constitution of the
Association and the By-Laws of the Executive Committee. A copy will
be sent free on application.

       *       *       *       *       *




                                THE

                       AMERICAN MISSIONARY.

                 *       *       *       *       *

            VOL. XXXVI.       MARCH, 1882.       NO. 3.

                 *       *       *       *       *




American Missionary Association.

       *       *       *       *       *


SO FAR.

One-third of the fiscal year of this Association ended January
31. Our friends will be glad to learn of our progress so far. Our
annual meeting, after careful deliberation, decided that $300,000
(or 23 per cent. more than last year) would be needed for the
growing work of this year; and we have been obliged to expend more
than one-third of this amount, showing that our estimate was none
too large.

Our receipts for the four months ending January 31 have been
$83,893.39. Of this amount $9,191.72 was received in legacies,
and $74,701.67 from other sources. There has been a decrease in
legacies of $3,132.28, and an increase from other sources of
$16,601.18, making a total increase of $13,468.90, or a little more
than 19 per cent. over that of last year instead of the 23 per
cent. asked for.

It will be seen that during the remaining eight months not only the
$200,000 allotted for that time must be raised, but also $16,107 of
deficiency. This will require an increase of 25 per cent. over the
income for the corresponding months of last year.

The increase of receipts from living donors is gratifying, and we
appeal with great confidence to those who have given to add to
their gifts, and to those who have not yet contributed to increase
the amount of their usual donations, so that the treasury of the
Lord may be full, and that the work be not hindered.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have just published Pamphlet No. 7 of our series,
containing the address of President E. H. Fairchild, D.D., at
Worcester, on ¡°God¡¯s Designs for and through the Negro Race,¡± and
¡°Missions the Work of this Era,¡± by Rev. M. E. Strieby, D.D. Copies
will be sent free on application.

We have received recent letters of a hopeful character from our
Mendi Mission. Rev. J. M. Williams, after a preaching tour among
the native villages, returned suffering from a serious illness from
which he appears to be recovering. A neat tombstone has been placed
over the remains of Rev. Kelly M. Kemp at the Good Hope Station.

       *       *       *       *       *

Messrs. D. Lothrop & Co. have done good service in publishing
¡°Around the World Tour of Missions,¡± by Mr. W. F. Bainbridge. The
book purports to give a universal survey of Christian Missions, and
contains in its appendix a list of missionary societies, home and
foreign. The amount of information in its 582 pages is a valuable
contribution to the missionary literature of the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

A friend sending a donation to constitute a life member says: ¡°I
believe that this makes twenty-six life members which I have made
during the last eight or ten years. Were you to ask me to-day to
give you the full sum, $780, I could not do it, but as it came by
$30 at a time, I have not felt it, but have been made happy in
making others to rejoice by a small amount yearly given to your
society. Why not urge others to adopt some such system of giving?¡±

       *       *       *       *       *

We publish elsewhere an account of the burning of the
Congregational church and school building of the Emerson Institute,
Mobile, Ala. The origin of the fire is indicated by the following
offer of reward: ¡°$300 reward. The undersigned will pay the above
reward of $300 for the arrest, conviction and punishment of any
person or persons who set fire to any of the following buildings,
to wit: Residence of John F. Cotham, house of Annie C. Sullivan,
house belonging to estate of Boulo, Congregational Church building.
A. P. BUSH, President Mobile Board of Underwriters.¡±

The school was enjoying a winter of unusual prosperity at the time
of the fire, and as will be seen by the communication referred to
it has made temporary arrangements for the continuation of its work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our newly-appointed business agent for the Mendi Mission, Mr. I.
J. St. John, in describing his journey from Freetown, West Africa,
to our Good Hope Station, writes: ¡°Mr. Hall and myself had been on
the water in a boat with nothing but the soft side of a hard board
to sit on and sleep on for three days and two nights, with nothing
to eat but bread and strawberry jam. The worst of it was the board
each of us had was only fourteen inches wide and four feet long.¡±
These brethren will watch with special interest the report of the
receipts for the John Brown Steamer, which we shall commence to
build as soon as the money is assured. We trust the friends of this
Association will keep right on furnishing funds for this object.
About one-third of the $10,000 needful has been subscribed.

       *       *       *       *       *


ARTHINGTON MISSION.¡ªA PARALLEL.

The enterprises of different nationalities operating in
northeastern Africa are continually converging about Khartoum,
which, during the past three years, has been transformed in
appearance from an African to a semi-European city. Good houses and
extensive stores have been constructed, and at present all supplies
required by modern civilization are furnished.

The activity in this locality is indicated by some of the following
circumstances: Recently Mr. Goodwin, engineer at Cairo, reported to
the Egyptian government the necessity of prolonging the railroads
of lower Egypt to the Egyptian Soudan. A Spanish association is
planning an expedition from Korosko to the Albert Lake. Agents of
the Italian Society of Commerce are on their way to Khartoum for
mercantile purposes. The English government contemplate locating
consuls south of the desert, both at Souakim and Khartoum. A
special interest seems just now to be taken in the Galla country.
Baron M¨¹ller, with a German expedition, is heading towards this
locality. Piaggia is at Khartoum, from whence he purposes to
penetrate the same region. There is also reason to believe that
Count Pennazzi is already making his explorations in that country.

We are chiefly interested, however, in an enterprise which is
parallel to our proposed Arthington Mission.

It appears that a Swedish missionary society, founded in 1856,
was organized with a purpose to labor among the Gallas, reaching
their country via Khartoum and the Blue Nile. The society seems to
have been delayed and embarrassed in its operations, so much so
that it decided in 1866 to locate its stations at Massaoua and its
immediate neighborhood on the Red Sea. Here it gave instruction to
some 200 children, boys and girls, at its three stations. Some of
these children were pure heathen from the Galla tribes, and others
belonged to the Abyssinian church.

In 1877 Galla merchants came from Jemma, south of Abyssinia, and
anxiously requested that teachers be sent them. No Europeans at
that time could enter the country. Consequently three native
youths, who had been brought up at the mission schools and who
burned with zeal to carry the gospel of Christ to their fellow
countrymen, returned with the traders and established a mission for
Abyssinian and Galla children at Godjam, and began to preach to the
people, who seemed very willing to hear the glad tidings. Neither
language nor climate could hinder these, as they do Europeans.

The Swedish Society, however, has recently resolved to return to
its original purpose, and already one of its missionaries, Mr.
Arrhenius, accompanied by Onesimus, an Abyssinian by birth, and
another fellow laborer, are supposed to be on their way to Enarea,
via Berber, Khartoum and the Blue Nile, to found a mission in
Southern Abyssinia. Mr. Arrhenius purposed to leave for the Galla
Country November, 1881, and it is not improbable that he may have
fallen in with Messrs. Ladd and Snow, at Khartoum. By reference to
the accompanying map it will be seen that Enarea lies in about the
same latitude as the mouth of the Sobat, on the White Nile, being
situated some 400 miles from it in an easterly direction. Both of
these points lie in the territory designated by Mr. Arthington. At
the latter, it will be remembered, we somewhat expect to locate
our first mission station. The experience of this Swedish Society
during its fifteen years of labor gives it a great advantage. Its
students may not only prove of service among the Gallas, they may
also aid us in our mission.

It is encouraging to note the activities among the different
nationalities for the development of trade and internal
improvements in that portion of the Nile Basin which we hope to
occupy, but especially the fact that He who has affirmed that
Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands unto God, is moving upon the
hearts of Swedish, English and American Christians simultaneously
to enter and occupy that country for Christ.

       *       *       *       *       *


LATEST NEWS FROM REV. H. M. LADD.

BERBER, ON THE NILE, Dec. 31, 1881.¡ª¡°We arrived in
Berber, safe and sound, day before yesterday, the 29th, being
sixteen days from Korosko. We were nine days to Aboo Hamed, making
forced marches of twelve and thirteen hours, and averaging, to that
place, thirty-three miles a day. At Aboo Hamed we rested one day,
and from that place to Berber averaged twenty-one miles a day. I
have only time for a few lines now, as we go on board our dahabuyeh
for Khartoum to-night. The Atmoor desert is a trying one, and
nobody had better undertake it who has not a large amount of pluck
and endurance. We, however, are in perfect health and good spirits.
On our arrival we found all the merchant boats engaged. There
was here only one dahabuyeh belonging to the Governor. We went
to him and asked for it. He refused. We fell back on our orders
from Cairo. He changed his mind, and said we might take it _if_ we
could get an order for it from Khartoum. We telegraphed to Raouf
Pasha, Governor-General of Soudan. This morning the order came by
telegram, and also a telegram of welcome to the Soudan. The Reis
has reported to us. The dahabuyeh now lies in front of our tents,
subject to our orders and ready to sail. In a few minutes we go on
board, and hope to reach Khartoum by the 5th. I will try to send my
journal from there, and bring it up to date. We are highly pleased
with Berber and the people we find here. Everything so far has gone
well. We are pressing forward just as fast as is possible.¡±

[Illustration: _Map of Mission in Eastern Africa._]

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SLAVE MUSIC OF THE SOUTH.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY REV. GEORGE H. GRIFFIN, MILFORD, CT.

       *       *       *       *       *

If ever the real genius for music seems to have been born in the
soul of an entire race, that race is the African. Explorers of the
dark continent speak of a marked musical taste among the negroes on
their native heath, but the American type of African is still more
largely developed in that direction.

Some of the European races are naturally full of song, but in them
the culture of music as a science is also illustrated.

The light and pleasing melodies of Italian operas or the grand and
sonorous chords of German symphonies and sonatas show the results
of a high degree of musical education.

But, in searching for that undefinable entity which is sometimes
called the ¡°soul of music,¡± or, in other words, that kind of music
which finds a responsive thrill in every human breast, because
it speaks most clearly the language of man¡¯s best impulses and
tenderest feelings, it seems to the writer that the slave songs
of the South meet the demand more nearly than any other style of
musical expression. These children of bondage knew nothing of
the methods of the schools, yet, in the harmonious blending and
balancing of the four parts, their vocalization is seldom equalled;
while their skill in translating heart throbs into the descriptive
language of the diatonic scale is rarely surpassed.

No exhaustive analysis of the slave music is here attempted.

It is, however, a very rich mine to explore. Suffice to indicate
its principal features, namely these, among others: great
simplicity, but richness in the harmony, coupled with much variety
and originality of melody. Many of the ¡°resolutions¡± of chords
are abrupt and startling; some of them doubtless contrary to the
principles of ¡°thorough bass,¡± but all the more expressive on that
account of the rough and rugged experiences which gave them birth.
While the _tempo_ of these songs is largely common, or four-four,
there are strange points of emphasis put upon syllables and
unexpected cadences in rhythm, which are well nigh unreducible to
musical notation.

The _ad libitum_ passages are numerous, and the musical intervals
often abnormal, as in rapid changes from major to minor, and
conversely, like ¡°Roll, Jordan, Roll¡±; also in the use of a minor
third, while singing on a major key, as in ¡°Run to Jesus.¡±

Their general style is recitative and chorus, though a few are pure
solos or unisonal measures.

The music and words of many of these songs were born together.

This is true, especially, of those associated with social worship,
which, having been produced by the sudden inspiration of religious
fervor came forth spontaneously from one voice, while the multitude
caught the refrain and sang it out with a mighty chorus, as the
sound of many waters.

Assuming the correctness of Geo. MacDonald¡¯s definition of a song,
as a composition in which the emotional largely overbalances
the intellectual element, their songs, with their fullness of
sentiment, seem to realize the ideal.

A proper classification of these products of slavery should
distinguish between those songs which groan with the agonies of a
hard and cruel thralldom, and those which palpitate with the joy
of a present salvation, and the hope of a glorious home of freedom
beyond the grave.

Among the selections belonging to the first of these divisions, the
minor key naturally predominates. Indeed, this is the pitch upon
which the majority of human hearts, the world over, are tuned. A
more exquisite minor melody than ¡°Nobody Knows the Trouble I See,¡±
can hardly be conceived. So, too, for pure pathos nothing can excel
¡°You May Bury Me in the East.¡± But for bold and thrilling grandeur,
scarcely anything in all the musical conceptions of the ages can be
considered superior to ¡°Go Down, Moses, way down in Egypt Land.¡± As
the slaves used to roar it out, it must have seemed like the very
voice of Jehovah himself.

In these songs it is easy to trace the effects of a galling yoke
crushing the poor body to the dust, while the soul rises triumphant
over circumstances in the conviction of its true nobility and in
the hope, though long deferred, of realizing, even on earth, its
full liberty. The sweetest utterances of the sacred poets of all
the centuries have been those ¡°songs in the night¡± that came forth
from the bitterest experiences of human woe.

It is related of a certain German nobleman that he had a number of
wires stretched from turret to turret of his castle which acted
like a great ?olian harp, bringing forth richest music, but _only_
when the tempests played upon its quivering strings. So may it be
said of the slaves in their forlorn condition, that they sang most
sweetly when the storms of adversity beat upon them most fiercely.

Happily the days of slave music are past. The system which brought
it into existence is abolished; but the world owes a great debt of
gratitude to those who have made a study of these songs and put
them in print for the benefit of future generations.

This article would not be complete without a single mention of the
Fisk Jubilee Company, whose wonderful history¡ªmore romantic than
the wildest fiction¡ªfurnishes a living illustration of our theme.

Their first performances doubtless represented the native music of
the South more perfectly than the present cultured state of their
voices will allow; but, while art has refined their methods, it has
also served to adorn nature with a chaste and quiet beauty which
wins a way to every soul that comes under its magic spell.

The evident enjoyment with which they pour forth their music like
birds¡ªtheir marvelous power of _crescendo_ and _diminuendo_¡ªtheir
faultless articulation both of notes and words, even in the most
_piano_ and prolonged chords¡ªstamp their style as a model for
church choirs and all who engage in the service of sacred song.

God be praised that we live to see this day, when these
long-despised and down-trodden sons and daughters of toil can visit
our Northern cities in the full enjoyment of American citizenship,
and teach us of the alleged and boasted superior race how to sing
most expressively and effectively the Lord¡¯s song in a strange land.

       *       *       *       *       *


ROUND THE WORLD.

¡ªNew York.¡ªThere are 489 churches and missions of all
denominations laboring for the spiritual welfare of the City of New
York, of which about 400 are evangelical Protestant churches.

¡ªChicago.¡ªThe number of churches in Chicago has increased in ten
years from 156 to 218. The Congregationalists and Presbyterians
have each lost one church in that time.

¡ªOmaha.¡ªThe largest Congregational Church in Nebraska is at
Omaha. During the past year 49 persons were admitted to its
membership by its pastor, Rev. A. F. Sherrell.

¡ªOgden.¡ªThe influx of Mormons to Utah is indicated by the fact
that more than 2,000 recruits left Liverpool for that Territory
last summer.

¡ªSan Francisco.¡ªThere were 1,682 pupils enrolled in the schools
of the A. M. A. in California last year, of which number 140 were
hopefully converted.

¡ªSandwich Islands.¡ªA $6,000 church for the Chinese has been built
at Honolulu, $500 being given by a Chinaman who was formerly hired
out for $4 per month.

¡ªYokohama.¡ªThe Reformed Church in America has at its Yokohama
station 158 members, 8 preaching places, 3 Sunday-schools, 131
scholars, with a boarding department.

¡ªHong Kong.¡ªThe Mission of the Basle Society at Hong Kong has 145
communicants. The London Missionary Society has 32 missionaries,
native and foreign, at the same point.

¡ªCalcutta.¡ªA sect of Hindoo dissenters has recently made an
attack on the idol of Juggernaut. They profess belief in Hindoo
deities, but do not respect their images.

¡ªBombay.¡ªThe native dispensary of the St. John¡¯s Mission,
Bombay, has an average attendance of about 60 patients, who are
read to daily by the missionaries of the English Church.

¡ªCairo.¡ªThe Mohammedans at Cairo have a very extensive
training-school, in which 10,000 students are taught annually the
doctrines contained in the Koran.

¡ªNaples.¡ªThe Wesleyan Methodists sustain regular preaching in 96
preaching places in Italy. In the Naples district they have 575
members and 196 probationers.

¡ªRome.¡ªThe Free Church of Italy has 15 ordained ministers, 15
evangelists and 1,800 communicants. Its theological college,
attended by 16 students, is situated at Rome.

¡ªTurin.¡ªThe village of Bertrolla, near Turin, in Italy, has
renounced Romanism and accepted the Protestant faith. The
archbishop suspended the priest and closed the church against the
2,000 parishioners.

¡ªParis.¡ªIn Paris there are said to be 89 Sunday-schools, with
7,596 scholars. The international series of lessons is used in 32
of these schools.

¡ªLondon.¡ªThree Congregational churches in the north of London
have opposed the application of the Salvation Army for permission
to occupy their chapels as centres for religious work.

¡ªLiverpool.¡ªBishop Ryle has delivered a strong charge to his
clergy in consequence of the existence of a body of churchmen who
seemed determined to un-Protestantize the church.

¡ªNew York.¡ªRev. Albert B. Simpson, with a company of associates,
has undertaken a new evangelistic work for the masses in the
Academy of Music, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *


REVIVAL NEWS.

¡ªMeetings have been held every evening during the week for some
time at Talladega College. Several conversions are reported.

¡ªA precious revival has been in progress some weeks in Fisk
University. Nightly meetings have been held, and at last report
twenty-five students had given evidence of conversion.

¡ªSpecial meetings were held during the week of prayer at the Le
Moyne Institute. Three persons have been hopefully converted, and
others are inquiring the way of life. The church also has advanced
to a better spiritual condition.

¡ªThis month has been characterized by a great awakening in
Straight University, New Orleans. It is believed that ten of
the young lady boarders have been hopefully converted. The good
influence is widely felt throughout the school.

¡ªProfessor Francis writes from Atlanta University: ¡°For some days
past our school has been much moved by the presence of the Holy
Spirit, who has brought quite a number to confess their need of
a Saviour, and quickened greatly the zeal of many who had before
borne the name of Christ. We are holding extra meetings, and the
interest deepens from day to day, so that we have good reason
to hope that a good harvest may be gathered in, if we exercise
due fidelity and patience. The impressions of the gracious work
we enjoyed last year have remained with us, and already quite a
number have this year taken their stand for Christ, and we rejoice
greatly at the good dealings of the Lord with us, and seek greater
blessings.¡±

       *       *       *       *       *


GENERAL NOTES.


AFRICA.

¡ªA dispatch from Cairo announces the death of Mgr. Comboni,
Apostolic Vicar of Central Africa.

¡ªThe colonies of Natal, discontented with their form of
government, demand the institution of a parliamentary rule upon the
model of that which has been granted the colony of the Cape.

¡ªThe Queen of Madagascar has named for the first time the
ministers and secretaries of state, and at the same time given a
law relative to their functions.

¡ªA steamer with two helixes has been ordered by an English house
for the civilizing station of the Portuguese which is to be
established upon the Congo.

¡ªA society is formed in Liberia, under the title of Liberia
Interior Association, with a view of developing commerce with the
interior, of seeking means of transportation and the employ of
beasts in some parts of the country, and of bestowing attention
upon the commercial, agricultural and political interests of the
colony in the interior.

¡ªThe College of Liberia will be transferred into the country,
where to classical studies will be joined instruction in manual
labor, to teach the natives the use and practice of the instruments
of European industry.

¡ªP. Autunes, Professor at Braga, set out the 15th of October,
with two assistants and three workmen, to establish at Hailla,
near Humpata, where the Boers are, schools for the children of the
colonists, the Boers and natives, under the direction of chosen
teachers. He will also establish an industrial and professional
school of arts and trades necessary for African life. The
Portuguese government has granted lands to him, reserving to itself
the approval of the rules which will regulate these different
establishments.

MR. A. E. JACKSON, of the Mendi Mission, in appealing
for supplies, says: ¡°There are persons here who desire to unite
in matrimony. They are just emerging from paganism, and any favor
shown them by the Mission adds so much to its influence for good.
They ought to have plain white dresses, white gloves, shoes or
slippers, and a little underwear; and for encouragement, some
bedding¡ªsheets, pillow-cases, and such like. We have a young
couple with us who were married this year, and Mrs. Jackson is now
preparing clothing for another couple who will marry in about two
weeks.¡±

       *       *       *       *       *


THE INDIANS.

¡ªThe American Baptist Home Missionary Society reports 90 churches,
with nearly 6,000 church members, among the Indians in the Indian
Territory.

¡ªSantiago Reino, an Indian from the Taos Pueblo, was recently
baptized and received into the church at Cenecero, Colorado. So far
as known, he is the first from that Pueblo to receive Christian
baptism.

¡ªRev. Mr. Hicks, of McAllister, Indian Territory, has selected
a site for a church, and reorganized a Sunday-school with 40
scholars. He hopes soon to reorganize a church with 20 members.
Four infants have already received the rite of baptism.

¡ªThe presence of fifteen civilized Indians at the Presbytery of
Idaho¡ªone of them an ordained minister, four ruling elders, two
licentiates, three applying for licensure, and all of them church
members¡ªspeaking and singing the praises of God, was a grand
testimony to the power and influence of the Christian religion.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE CHINESE.

¡ªChina proper is said to be entirely open to the missionary and
the Bible colporteur with the exception of Hunan.

¡ªMiss H. Carter, a teacher among the Chinese in Boston, writes:
It is not unusual to find a man who learns the alphabet and a few
words in a single lesson. One pupil of more than twenty-five years
learned to read so rapidly at his weekly lesson that he could study
intelligently the Sunday-school Bible lesson in Isaiah lv. at the
end of five months.

¡ªA Chinese named Wang, aged sixty-two, applying for baptism said:
¡°I should not like to die without having obeyed the commandment
of the Lord Jesus.¡± When asked what name he intended to choose at
his baptism, he said: ¡°Lazarus was a poor man, just as I am a poor
man; I should like therefore to be called by his name.¡± He was
accordingly baptized by the name of Lazarus.

       *       *       *       *       *


BENEFACTIONS.

¡ªMr. Haskell, editor of the Boston _Herald_, has subscribed $1,000
to Bates College.

¡ªMr. John P. Howard has given $28,000 to the University of
Vermont, for rebuilding its main edifice.

¡ªAmherst College is to receive about $50,000 for its library from
the estate of the late Joel Stiles, of Boston.

¡ªMr. C. H. McCormick has added $50,000 to his already liberal
gifts to the Presbyterian Theological Seminary of the Northwest.

¡ªThe Boston University has come into possession of the $2,000,000
estate bequeathed to the institution ten years ago by Isaac Rich,
of Boston.

¡ªThe will of the late Cornelius Sweetser bequeathed $10,000 to
the Thomaston Academy, the income of $15,000 for public and school
libraries, $5,000 for a Sweetser school fund, and $12,000 to the
York Institute.

¡ªSt. Johnsbury Academy has received from Thaddeus Fairbanks an
additional $40,000 as a permanent fund. To this a gift of $50,000
is added from the estate of Governor Erastus Fairbanks, making,
with sums otherwise secured, an endowment fund of $100,000.

¡ª_The Executive Committee of the A. M. A. reported at its annual
meeting that $15,000 were needed for a Boy¡¯s Dormitory at Straight
University, New Orleans, La. One individual offers $5,000 of this
amount on condition that the remaining $10,000 be secured._

       *       *       *       *       *

A volume of 420 pages, entitled ¡°Missionary Papers,¡± by
Rev. John C. Lowrie, D.D., is the work of a man well qualified to
write on a broad range of missionary topics. Dr. Lowrie was once
a missionary in India, and for many years has been the senior
Secretary of the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions. These
papers are, therefore, the results of extended observation and
of long and varied experience. They, like their author, are not
sensational, but scholarly and practical. We subjoin a quotation
from the paper on ¡°Less Favored Races.¡±

¡°As to passing by the degraded, ignorant and uncivilized races, in
order to reach those who are in some degree intelligent, polite and
civilized¡ªwell, we do not so understand the example of the first
Christians. The Apostle Peter might have made a splendid argument
for the Hebrews as the main people to be first evangelized,
pointing to their wonderful history, their unrivaled geographical
position, their intellectual force, their widely-spread settlements
in other countries; so the Apostle Paul might have spent a part of
his unequaled eloquence in a plea for the Greeks as the people of
culture, and of the Romans as full of energy. But how little do we
find in the first missionary records of ethnographic, political,
commercial, conventional ideas as motives for evangelizing labor.
We ought to understand, moreover, the lesson of our own Anglo-Saxon
history; where were men and women to be found who were less
attractive than the early inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland?
The same Gospel that brought them to their present standing can
change the people of Africa and make them intelligent, cultured,
devoted Christians.¡±

       *       *       *       *       *


A BLIND SAMSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM ADDRESS OF REV. A. J. BIDDLE, AT WARSAW, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

Years ago, when the negro was a bondman, Longfellow thus spoke of
him:

    ¡°There is a poor blind Samson in the land,
      Shorn of his strength and bound in bands of steel,
    Who may in some grim revel raise his hand
      And shake the pillars of the common weal.
    Till the vast temples of our liberties
      A shapeless mass of muck and rubbish lies.¡±

Well he is blind enough yet, poor enough, a Samson, too, and what
is more, he is no longer bound. His locks are beginning to grow,
and he is beginning to place his brawny hand upon the pillars of
our common weal; not angrily, but ignorantly. We placed them there
hoping that he would prove a support, and he will if we watch and
direct him. But thus far he has been a menace to our liberties; not
from malice, but because he is what he is. We have not dealt with
him wisely; but from the fatal day over two hundred years ago, when
that thrifty Dutchman landed the first negro on the hanks of the
James River to this, we have blundered. Our treatment of him has
been a mixture of stupidity and wickedness. We never should have
brought him here, but we did.

It should have been our endeavor to raise him from his barbarism by
careful education, but that was forbidden by law. We should have
emancipated him gradually, but that we could not do. We should have
fitted him for citizenship before giving him the ballot, but we did
the opposite. When emancipated, we should have educated him, but
that was too much trouble. So from the outset we have done those
things we ought not to have done, and left undone those things we
ought to have done. We can see it now, but it requires little wit
to see our blunders after they are made, and we are suffering the
consequences. But note three points:

1st. The negro is a part of our nation. One person in every eight
of our population is of African descent. He is going to stay a
permanent part of our population. You cannot colonize him. He will
not die out. The exodus is but a ripple, and that from one part of
the nation to another. In the South he will live and thrive. His
race increases with frightful rapidity. It does no good to grumble
about it. The problem we must solve is to build up a peaceful,
prosperous nation with such a population as we have.

2d. They are citizens; they have the right to vote; they will
vote; the votes will be counted. The time will soon come when they
will hold the balance of power in every Southern State. Political
parties will bid for their vote, cater to their wishes and
prejudices, and shape legislation to catch their votes.

3d. They are as a class miserably poor, densely ignorant and low
in their moral conception and practice. Seventeen years ago they
were turned loose without a cent of their own or a letter of the
alphabet. That they have done well in acquiring property and
knowledge under the circumstances, is the testimony of all who know
them. Many of them have little homes of their own, and those who
can read and write are numbered now by the hundred thousand. Take
them altogether, it is estimated that they own on an average above
$11 worth of property. It is an encouraging fact that in seventeen
years they have accumulated so much as that. But what poverty does
that indicate, with $11 for each man, woman and child among them!
Here we must not forget that they are six hundred years behind the
white race in civilization. They as a rule must be separated from
the whites. We cannot absorb them, as we do the German, or Irish.
They will be clannish by the nature of the case. The more ignorant
they remain the more clannish they will grow, and our only safety
lies in making them feel that their interest is not separated from,
but identical with the other citizens of the Republic. I tell you,
friends, that the mightiest question of the nation yet, is what to
do with that great mass of half civilized, impoverished, ignorant
people that cover the South.




THE FREEDMEN.

REV. JOSEPH E. ROY, D.D., FIELD SUPERINTENDENT, ATLANTA,
GA.

       *       *       *       *       *


TWENTY YEARS AFTER FREEDOM.

It is worthy of note that near where the first slaves disembarked
in our country, bondmen were first disenthralled by the events
of our civil war. Gen. Butler, in May, 1861, issued his famous
proclamation, declaring the negroes about his camp in Hampton
contrabands.

At that time, and later on, thousands of them gathered in near
proximity to his headquarters, living for the most part in an
improvised city, christened Slabtown. Twenty years have wrought
many changes in the condition of these people. Slabtown has
disappeared, and in its place and for miles around, cottages with
garden plots, and even considerable farms, are found. A large
number of these are owned by the freed people, who constitute a
majority in Elizabeth City county, and form a quasi-negro republic.

The blacks are courteous in their deportment toward the white
citizens, who in return display much kindness and good will. One of
the negroes, when asked recently by a Northern gentleman how his
people were treated by the whites, is reported to have said. ¡°Oh,
we are largely in the majority, and the white man knows how to keep
his place.¡± They seem willing that the white people should hold
the important offices, and the most cordial relations apparently
exist between all classes. Not long after the recent election in
Virginia, the black people about Fortress Monroe were observed to
be intently reading the newspapers. A ministerial-looking colored
man, of fifty or upward, was asked by the writer if there was any
law forbidding the white people to read. ¡°Why do you wish to know
that?¡± he inquired. On being told that the colored people were seen
reading the papers while the white laborers were standing idly
about, he replied pertinently, ¡°These white folks don¡¯t like the
way the election went much, but it just suited us.¡±

[Illustration: ASSEMBLY-ROOM AT HAMPTON.]

The improvements about Fortress Monroe and Hampton during the
past twenty years have been considerable. New buildings have been
constructed inside of the fort, and Mr. Harrison Phoebus has built
near the government wharf a mammoth, hotel, the Hygeia, capable of
accommodating a thousand visitors. The Soldier¡¯s Home at Hampton
has extensive grounds, and accommodations for over 600 people.
A large and tasteful building has just been completed, with an
audience room seating from six to eight hundred. The grounds and
buildings connected with the Soldier¡¯s Home are kept up with much
care and expense.

The Hampton Institute, which has done much to work all the changes
mentioned, is a village by itself, and Gen. Armstrong, its
principal, has 704 students under his supervision. The village of
Hampton, which was burned early in the war, has been rebuilt, and
recently Newport News has come to the front in consequence of the
extension of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad to that point. Already
the company has constructed a pier said to be the largest in the
United States, and land is held at $16,000 an acre at a point where
scarcely a dozen houses can be seen. The harbor facilities at
Newport News are unrivaled.

These varied developments have created a demand for labor and
given to the negro, especially as he is the recognized laborer, a
grand opportunity for securing property. A canvasser for a sewing
machine company, who has spent three years in Eastern Virginia,
testifies that the negroes have most of the money to be found in
that country. He says they are prompt in paying their instalments,
whereas when he sells to the poorer white people he fails to
collect his money, for the reason that they have none.

[Illustration]

The manners and customs of the people are still unique. It is no
uncommon thing to see a heifer or a steer harnessed to a cart and
driven by one or two women who bring supplies to market. Possibly
one-half of the conveyances seen by a visitor during a month¡¯s stay
are of this fashion; but the proprietors do not seem to be unhappy.
Indeed, a Wall street broker, who had been spending a month at
the Hygeia hotel, and who was fond of the recreation afforded by
visiting Hampton on market days, affirmed that these negroes were
the happiest people he ever saw.

If twenty years of freedom can work such changes all over the land
as are manifested here, where emancipation first dawned, surely the
future is full of hope.

       *       *       *       *       *


EMERSON INSTITUTE, MOBILE, ALA., BURNED.

Emerson Institute is lying in ruins. For the second time in her
history she is smoldering in ashes, and we are in mourning for the
destruction of our little church, made dear by so many sacred and
hallowed associations, and our beautiful school building, in which
so many happy hours of toil have been spent and labors of love
performed. November 21 a vain attempt was made to burn the little
Congregational church at Mobile, but the fire, being set at an
early hour in the evening, was discovered and soon extinguished.
The insurance company repaired damages at an expense of $30. Now,
when our minds were relaxing this tension, and lapse of time was
giving us a degree of security against further molestation, the
enemy approaches again and applies the torch¡ªthis time with
marvelous success.

The fire was discovered about two o¡¯clock on the morning of January
23 by one of the teachers, who was startled by the crackling sound
of the flames. Arousing her room-mate and looking out to make sure
of the evidence, they discovered the flames and gave the alarm
of ¡°fire¡± to the household. It was set at the northwest corner
of the church, facing toward the house, and when discovered the
whole end was a sheet of flame. In an incredibly short space of
time Mr. Crawford was throwing an acid stream from our ¡°Babcock
Extinguisher¡± into the devouring flames, but they had gained so
great an advantage before discovery that the ¡°Babcock¡± alone could
not avail. The alarm boxes being out of order the tower bell could
not be struck. The Hook and Ladder Company were early on hand, but
had no fire buckets. When we found ourselves powerless to quench
the consuming flames on the church, we turned our attention to
the school building standing near. Danger to that did not seem
great as the building was of brick, the night was still and damp
and the engines had arrived. But thinking it better to err on the
safe side, most of the movable furniture was carried out. Before
this was fully accomplished, however, the cornice had caught and
the flames rapidly spread over the roof, leaping higher and higher
in mock derision of the little shower bath from the hose. Not
until the roof had fallen and the flames had spread to all parts
and our hopes were buried in despair, did the engines succeed in
getting water enough to throw a respectable stream. Help delayed
was unavailing. It seems almost incredible that our school building
should burn down before our very eyes, under such circumstances.
Was it an enemy did this foul deed? Who can tell? God only, who
reads the hearts of men, can answer. The expressed sentiments of
the best people of the city are in severe condemnation of the act,
and a reward of $300 has been offered for the arrest and conviction
of the incendiary.

The question which presented itself to us, even before the smoke
had died away, was, ¡°What shall we do?¡± For a time we felt
constrained to utter the language of Gideon: ¡°O, my Lord! if the
Lord be with us, why, then, is all this befallen us?¡± The answer
came clear and unmistakable: ¡°Go, in this thy might, and thou
shalt save Israel from the hands of the Midianites; have not I
sent thee?¡± The way was made plain to us at once, when Rev. Mr.
Owen, pastor of the Third Baptist Church (colored) threw wide open
its doors and said: ¡°We gladly make room for you here.¡± The offer
was as thankfully received as it was generously given. Scholars,
patrons and friends seem as anxious that the work should be
continued without delay as we ourselves. So that we re-open school
again on Monday, Jan. 30, with three departments, at the Third
Baptist Church, about one mile from the ¡°Home,¡± and two departments
in the basement of Little Zion Church, about three blocks distant
from the Home. Of course, the accommodations now will be in sad
contrast to those enjoyed in our well-arranged and convenient
school-room, and our labors will be much more arduous and trying;
but the Lord has said, ¡°As thy days so shall thy strength be,¡±
and we go forward relying on His strength. Our school seemed in a
most prosperous condition, over two hundred pupils enrolled, and
everything moving on to the satisfaction of all. The Sunday-school
has not had a larger attendance for three years than now. There
seemed to be a constantly growing interest manifested, and the
outlook was very encouraging.

Nothing at all was saved from the church. The cabinet organ, the
Sunday-school library of over two hundred volumes, a valuable chart
used by the primary department of the school, together with Bibles,
singing-books, etc., all perished in the flames.

In our now pressing needs we cannot close this article without
an appeal to the earnest, hopeful and sympathetic friends at the
North. ¡°Come over and help us.¡±

                                         MISS EMMA CAUGHEY.

       *       *       *       *       *




THE INDIANS

       *       *       *       *       *


CHRISTMAS AT SPOKAN FALLS, W. T.¡ªSCHOOL WORK, Etc.

_By Rev. H. T. Cowley._

Christmas is always the greatest occasion of the year with these
Indians, and its recent recurrence was unusually enjoyed. The
principal attraction is the opportunity to worship, hear anew
the story of the Saviour¡¯s birth, renew their consecration and
participate in the ordinance of the Lord¡¯s Supper. A social
festival follows all, tribal affairs are discussed and efforts are
made to heal jealousies and alienations.

On this occasion there was a marked religious interest and a very
visible improvement in outward condition. The school-house, which
is as yet our only place of meeting, was densely crowded; many had
come over twenty miles in sleds and on horseback.

Father Eells, their former missionary, was present and addressed
them, renewing old associations. There were seven infant and one
adult baptisms; and two others, a wife and husband, expressed a
desire to unite with the church at our next communion. It was
altogether a precious occasion, which we shall all long remember.
The school now numbers sixteen scholars equally divided between
the sexes, and is making reasonable progress considering the
disadvantages we contend with. A day school among Indians, as a
general rule, fails of the best results. The imperative demand is
for a boarding and industrial department and a matron. I have been
calling the attention of the Indian Department to this necessity
for the past six years, but as the Spokans are a small tribe and
peacefully inclined, Congress has overlooked them, while at the
same time their country is being rapidly filled by white settlers
and no adequate provision has been made for their permanent
location or education. Commissioner Price has, however, recently
informed me of his recommendation to secure an appropriation of
$5,000 to enable Spokans who wish to avail themselves of the
provisions of the Indian Homestead Act to pay the land fees and
commissions.

We are also much in need of a house of worship, as the school-house
(18¡Á24) is too small and inconvenient for that purpose. Dr.
Atkinson informs me that he raised $50 while East to help in this
object, but about $200 more will be required to supplement the work
of the Indians.

       *       *       *       *       *




THE CHINESE.

       *       *       *       *       *


CLIPPINGS FROM THE FORTHCOMING ANNUAL REPORT OF OUR CALIFORNIA
AUXILIARY.

[BY REV. W. C. POND.]

GENERAL VIEW.¡ª¡°The past year has been one of blessing at
almost every point of our experience. We have to record our roll of
members unbroken, so far as we know, by any stroke of death; our
schools increasingly prosperous, on the whole, from the beginning
of the year to its close; our work larger and better, we trust,
than ever before; a deeper and more general interest in it, we have
reason to think, on the part of the churches, and our receipts,
especially in the way of gifts made directly to our own treasury,
much larger than in any preceding year.¡±

OUR WORK AS A WHOLE.¡ª¡°Fifteen schools have been sustained
for a longer or shorter period in the year, a gain upon last year¡¯s
work of three schools. Of these fifteen, nine were sustained the
entire year, with no vacation at all, except for two or three days
at the annual holidays. Of the other six, all except one were
commenced during the year, and all but two are still in operation.
One of them is still an experiment, and may be discontinued; the
others give such promise of usefulness¡ªare, indeed, already
bearing such good fruit¡ªthat I think they are experiments no
longer.¡±

¡°We had at the close of the previous year 20 teachers and helpers
employed, six of whom were Chinese. At the close of this year 27
laborers¡ªnine Chinese. The total number of months of missionary
service is 286, being more by 40 than in any other year of our
Mission¡¯s history. We have great satisfaction now in all our
workers. Our Chinese helpers give us especial joy, as being
themselves the fruit of our mission-work. They are faithful,
zealous, and, generally, wise; and God owns their labors, setting
His seal upon their ministry by using it for the salvation of
lost souls. We greatly desire to call others into this service,
hoping that when they have learned among us to teach by teaching,
and to preach by preaching, it may please the Master to use them
not only to carry the good news of a Saviour to the Chinese in
America, but to evangelize also some of the myriads in their own
land. The total number of pupils enrolled was 1,632, an increase
upon the previous year of 76, even as that year showed an increase
of 67 on the one further back. The average membership month by
month reaches an aggregate of 562, a gain upon the year preceding
of 78, and the average attendance was 288, a gain of 36. We find
like gains in the columns representing those who have ceased from
idol worship and who give evidence of conversion. How many began
the new life during the year it is impossible to state accurately.
No month has passed without some accessions to our Association
of Christian Chinese, and to join that Association is to confess
Christ. I estimate the hopeful conversions at 56, and the total
number brought to repentance since our mission-work began at more
than 325. The contributions of these Chinese brethren to the work
of Christ through the treasury, either of our Mission or of their
Association, amount to about $1,900.¡±

POSTSCRIPT.

The Secretary takes the liberty to add, by way of bringing the
story of our work down to the date at which this report is issued,
that the monthly reports for the first third of the present
year¡ªthat is from September 1 to December 31¡ªshow that the
enrolled membership of our schools, month by month, has averaged
677, against a like enrollment last year of 473; the aggregate
average attendance 325, against 215 last year. And the total number
enrolled in all the schools up to December 31 was, this year.
1,104; last year, 753. So the work grows; may the gracious results
multiply in far greater proportion! Brethren, pray for us.

       *       *       *       *       *




CHILDREN¡¯S PAGE

       *       *       *       *       *


BOY LIFE IN CHINA.

                                              HANGCHOW, China.

My dear children: I think you will be interested to hear something
about the life of boys in China. Well, to begin at the beginning,
when a little baby-boy makes his appearance into the world he is
welcomed very warmly. When he is a month old a grand ceremony is
gone through; the child is washed, and its head shaved, all except
two little tufts of hair on each side of the head behind the ear,
which are tied tight and stick out at right angles from the head.
He is dressed up very smartly, and a feast is given. Up to about
six or seven years old, boys are allowed to do much as they like;
but after that they are taken to school, and learn reading, writing
and manners. They do not seem, as a rule, to be taught arithmetic;
but the master is very particular about his pupils¡¯ manners. In
every school there is put up opposite the entrance a tablet in
honor of Confucius, and all the pupils have to bow low before it,
holding up their books with both hands towards it, both on entering
and leaving school; they also bow in the same way to the master.
The books which they learn at school are full of the sayings of
the wise man Confucius, who was born 551 B.C., and lived about the
time when the Jews were returning from their captivity in Babylon.
Confucius himself did not write any books, but his disciples wrote
down his wise sayings, and the boys at school learn them off by
heart.

It is astonishing what memories these Chinese boys have, and what
a number of pages they will repeat straight off, as fast as their
tongues can go, and hardly stopping to take breath. They learn
their lessons aloud, and consequently as you walk along the street
you can tell when you are drawing near a school by the noise, which
becomes simply a din if you enter; and you can only wonder how the
children ever learn anything, and what the master has done to his
ears to make them strong enough to bear all that noise. When the
boys repeat their lessons they stand with their backs to their
master, and, swinging their bodies from side to side, gabble off
the words as fast as they can, without any stops except for breath.
They are not expected to understand what they learn till they have
been many years at school.

I dare say you wonder whether the Chinese school-boys play any
games. They do not know anything about such nice games as cricket,
foot-ball, marbles, etc. But at the new year they have a grand time
of flying kites.

The streets at that time look quite gay with groups of people,
dressed, not as at other times, in dark cotton clothes, but in
silks and satins of crimson, green, blue, purples and various
hues, often with beautifully embroidered sleeves, and jackets
often lined with fur. The children look particularly smart, being
adorned with gay caps and hats, ornamented with gilt figures
or Chinese characters, especially the Chinese character which
means ¡°happiness.¡± The Chinese kites are very elaborate, and are
generally in the shape of some animal¡ªa gigantic butterfly, a
centipede, a bird, a dragon, etc.; and it is a fine sight to watch
such a kite rise, rise steadily in the still, clear atmosphere,
till it becomes almost a speck. Sometimes they fly these kites at
night, and send lighted lanterns up after them, which startle the
unwary into imagining there are new stars appearing in the sky!

But you know, dear children, that these Chinese have evil hearts
as well as we, which need the renewing of the Holy Ghost. Will you
pray that they may receive this great blessing?¡ª_Mary Elwin in C.
M. Juvenile Instructor._

       *       *       *       *       *




RECEIPTS FOR JANUARY, 1882.

       *       *       *       *       *


  MAINE, $462.36.

    Bangor. Central Cong. Ch. and Soc.                       $50.00
    Bath. Central Ch. and Soc., $25.70; Mrs. J.C., $1         26.70
    Belfast. Rev. Wooster Parker                               5.00
    Bethel. F. B.                                              1.00
    Brunswick. C. R. S.                                        0.50
    Bucksport. Miss L. S. Barnard                              5.00
    Castine. Trin. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                         10.00
    Dennysville. ¡ª¡ª                                           21.68
    East Madison. Eliza Bicknell                               4.00
    Ellsworth. L. F. D.                                        0.50
    Gorham. Bbl. of C. and $2.75 _for Selma, Ala._             2.75
    Hallowell. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Fisk. U._                                                5.17
    Hallowell. 2 Bbls. C., _for Talladega, Ala._,
      and _McIntosh, Ga._
    Hampden. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    Hiram. Sab. Sch., _for Selma, Ala._                        1.00
    Litchfield. Miss Maria Plimpton                            2.00
    Limerick. Rev. T. N. Lord                                  2.50
    Orland. Mrs. S. T. Buck and daughters, to
      const. SARAH E. BUCK L. M.                              30.00
    Portland. State St. Ch., $75; High St. Ch. and
      Soc., $100; Mrs. L. D., $1                             176.00
    Portland. ¡°Ladies of Maine,¡± _for Lady
      Missionaries_                                           50.00
    Portland. Brown Thurston¡¯s S. S. Class, High
      St. Ch., _for Student Aid, Hampton N. & A.
      Inst._                                                  25.00
    Portland. Bbl. of C. and 50c. _for Freight_,
      by Mary A. Perkins                                       0.50
    South Paris. Cong. Ch.                                     6.06
    Union. Cong. Ch.; _for Freight_, $1.50; Cong.
      Sab. Sch., $3.50; _for Selma, Ala._                      5.00
    Union. Rev. F. V. N., 50c.; Mrs. H. R. B., 50c.            1.00
    Weld. Rev. D. D. T.                                        1.00
    Wells. D. Maxwell                                         20.00


  NEW HAMPSHIRE, $462.47.

    Amherst. Cong. Ch., $15.60; Mrs. C. M. B., $1             16.60
    Amherst. ¡°Friends,¡± Box C. and $2, _for
      Wilmington, N.C._                                        2.00
    Antrim. ¡°A Friend¡±                                        10.00
    Acworth. D. C. A.                                          0.50
    Concord. South Ch. and Soc.                               50.11
    Dover. First Parish Ch. and Soc.                          91.16
    Dublin. Mrs. L. B. Richardson, $10; Malachi
      Richardson, $10; R. E., $1, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                21.00
    East Alstead. S. D. H.                                     1.00
    East Jaffrey. Rev. J. C. Staples and family,
      _for Marietta, Ga._                                      5.00
    Exeter. ¡°A Friend¡±                                        30.00
    Exeter. Ladies, 3 Bbls. of C. and $5, _for
      Freight, for Talladega C._                               5.00
    Fisherville. PRISCILLA P. GAGE, $30, to const.
      herself L. M.; Jeremiah C. Martin, $16.25;
      Mrs. A. W. Fiske, $5                                    51.25
    Francestown. R. G. C.                                      0.51
    Great Falls. W. H. M. A. Aux., Bbl. of C.,
      _for Student Aid, Fisk U._
    Greenland. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                             15.00
    Hancock. ¡°Cheerful Workers,¡± Bundle C., val.
      $8.
    Haverhill. Eliza Cross                                     5.00
    Hillsborough. Mrs. N. T., $1; Mrs. J. G., $1               2.00
    Lancaster. E. M. K.                                        0.50
    Lebanon. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $27; O. S. M.,
      50c.                                                    27.50
    Londonderry. C. S. P.                                      1.00
    Lyme. T. L. Gilbert ($1 of which _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                          3.00
    Manchester. I. G. M.                                       0.51
    Mason. L. J. G.                                            0.50
    Milford. Cong. Ch.                                        12.29
    Mount Vernon. J. A. S.                                     1.00
    New Ipswich. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $10.50; G.
      T., $1                                                  11.50
    New Ipswich. By Mrs. L. A. O., $1 _for
      Freight_; Dea. R. T., 50c.                               1.50
    Pembroke. C. C. S.                                         0.51
    Peterborough. Union Evan. Ch. to const. MRS.
      ELLEN M. HATCH, L. M.                                   30.00
    Peterborough. Mrs. Eph. Holt ($1 _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                          2.00
    Plymouth. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                              10.00
    Rindge. Collected by Mrs. Street, _for Almeda,
      S.C._                                                    4.55
    Rindge. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                                 2.55
    Short Falls. J. W. C.                                      0.50
    South Newmarket. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                        5.81
    Stratham. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                 15.00
    Tilton and Northfield. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                 20.00
    Wilton. A. B. C.                                           0.50
    Winchester. Cong. Ch.                                      2.62
    ¡ª¡ª ¡°Friend of Colored People¡±                              3.00


  VERMONT, $811.15.

    Barnet. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                   10.37
    Bennington. Second Cong. Ch. and Soc.                     74.66
    Bradford. Bbl. of C., val. $35, _for
      Charleston, S.C._
    Brandon. ¡°J. L. H.¡±                                       10.00
    Brownington. S. S. Tinkham                                 5.00
    Chester. G. H. C.                                          0.60
    East Hardwick. Cong. Sab. Sch., $27.78; O. P.,
      50c.; S. W. O., 51c.                                    28.79
    Granby and Victory. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                     2.00
    Lowell. Cong. Ch.                                          7.68
    McIndoes. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                              12.00
    Milton. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                                18.15
    Middlebury. Cong. Sab. Sch.                               21.80
    Montpelier. Bethany Ch. and Soc.                          12.80
    Newport. Willie Richmond                                  30.00
    Northfield. O. D. E.                                       1.00
    North Thetford. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $7.70;
      Mrs. E. G. B., 50c.                                      8.20
    Pawlet. A. F.                                              1.00
    Pittsfield. H. O. G.                                       0.50
    Pittsford. N. P. Humphrey                                 10.00
    Pittsford. ¡°Dea. A. D. T.,¡± $4; Dr. and Mrs.
      Smith, $2; Mrs. A. W., $1; H. K., 50c.                   7.50
    Pittsford. Mrs. Swift¡¯s S. S. Class, _for S.
      S. First Cong. Ch. Atlanta, Ga._                         3.00
    Randolph. Mrs. Isaac Nichols                               2.00
    Royalton. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                              17.50
    Saint Albans. A. O. Brainerd (ad¡¯l), to const.
      MRS. JANE E. BRAINERD L. M.                             25.00
    Saint Albans. Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., Young Men¡¯s
      Class, _for Student Aid, Fisk U._                       13.00
    Saint Johnsbury. North Cong. Ch.                         283.99
    Stowe. Cong. Ch., to const. DEA. H. S. ATKINS,
      L. M.                                                   46.42
    Waitsfield. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                            16.88
    Westfield. Cong. Ch.                                       2.00
    West Rutland. M. Newton ($5 of which _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                         10.00
    Worcester. Cong. Ch.                                       3.31
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                             685.15

    LEGACY.

    Jericho. Estate of Hosea Spaulding, C. M.
      Spaulding, $60; A. C. Spaulding, $30; E. E.
      Spaulding, $18; Nellie M. Percival, $18                126.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                             811.15


  MASSACHUSETTS, $10,925.60.

    Acton. Cong. Ch. and Soc. (ad¡¯l), to const.
      REV. FRANKLIN P. WOOD, L. M.                            25.00
    Alford. Rev. J. Jay Dana, to const. MRS. ANNA
      B. DECAMP, L. M.                                        30.00
    Amherst. Amherst College, $63.95; G. C.
      Munsell, $2; W. H., $1: S. S., $1; H. B.,
      50c.; A. I. C., 50c.; Mrs. William Stearns,
      Jr., _for Freight_, $5                                  73.95
    Andover. South Ch. and Soc., $300; West Cong.
      Ch., $37.15; Edwin E. Goodell, $25; ¡°A
      Friend,¡± $10; Miss C. R. Jackson, $10; H.
      C., $1; W. A., 50c.; Mrs. F. R. B., 50c.               384.15
    Ashby. Second Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          12.91
    Ashfield. Ladies¡¯ Soc., Bbl. of C., _for
      Talladega C._
    Ayer. Mrs. C. A. Spaulding ($10 of which _for
      John Brown Steamer_)                                    50.00
    Barre. Mrs. A. R. M.                                       0.50
    Beverly. Cong. Sab. Sch., $50; Ladies¡¯ Benev.
      Soc. of Dane St. Ch., Bbl. of C., and $2
      _for Freight, for Student Aid, Fisk U._                 52.00
    Beverly. S. D. C. and E. H. G., $1; Mrs. S.
      N., $1: Miss M. R. O., $1                                3.00
    Boston. Woman¡¯s Home Miss. Ass¡¯n, _for Lady
      Missionaries_                                          204.78
    Boston. Miss H. N. Kirk ($5 of which _for
      Indian_ and $5 _for Chinese M._)                        15.00
    Boston. Rev. H. M. Dexter, D.D., _for Freight_             2.43
    Boston. Mt. Vernon Ch. and Soc., $341.31; Rev.
      Charles Nichols, $30, to const. JOHN G. CARY
      L. M.; Rev. P. Fisk, $10; Mrs. L. A.
      Bartholomew, $5; Mrs. J. K. H., 50c.; Mrs.
      M. A. C., 50c.; F. D. C., 51c.; Mrs. T. K.,
      50c.; J. H., 50c.                                      388.82
    Boston Highlands. Immanuel Ch. and Soc.                   40.00
    Boxford. Miss F. C.                                        1.00
    Boxford. Bbl. of C., _for Talladega C._
    Boyleston Centre. ¡°Friends,¡± 2 Bbls. of C.,
      _for Talladega C._
    Bridgewater. Central Square Sab. Sch., $10;
      Rev. I. D., $1, _for John Brown Steamer_                11.00
    Bridgewater. Mrs. I. D.                                    1.00
    Brimfield. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., $29.36;
      Second Cong. Ch. and Soc., $14.08                       43.44
    Brockton. Mrs. E. H., $1; L. C., $1                        2.00
    Brookfield. Mrs. J. S. M.                                  1.02
    Cambridge. A. E. H.                                        1.00
    Cambridgeport. Pilgrim Ch., Ladies¡¯ Miss.
      Soc., $30, to const. MRS. JAMES H. SPARROW,
      L. M.; Miss A. A. P., 50c.                              30.50
    Charlestown. Mrs. H. B., Jr.                               0.50
    Charlton. Rev. W. C. F.                                    1.00
    Chelsea. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., $30.95;
      Miss E. D., 50c.                                        31.45
    Chelsea. ¡°Union Home Mission Band,¡± _for Lady
      Missionary, Chattanooga, Tenn._                        119.00
    Chicopee. Third Cong. Ch. ($25 of which _for
      Hampton N. & A. Inst._)                                 65.73
    Clinton. First Evan. Ch. and Soc.                         79.98
    Colerain. P. B. S.                                         1.00
    Conway. D. L.                                              1.00
    Curtissville. G. E. D.                                     1.00
    Dalton. Mrs. Z. M. Crane, $100; Mrs. James B.
      Crane, $100; A. B., $1                                 201.00
    Dana. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                                   3.50
    Danvers. A. C. B., $1; Mrs. C. W. L., 50c.                 1.50
    Dedham. E. P. B., 50c.; E. P. C., 50c.                     1.00
    Dorchester. ¡°A Friend¡±                                     1.00
    Duxbury. Mrs. Rebecca R. Holmes                            2.50
    East Boston. Dea. T. D. D.                                 0.50
    East Douglas. Cong. Ch. and Soc., to const.
      JACOB WILLIAMS and WM. H. BRIGGS, L. M¡¯s                66.48
    East Hampton. Mrs. A. L. C., $1; Mrs. D. F.
      L., $1; I. A. J., 50c.; S. E. W., 50c.                   3.00
    East Longmeadow. Cong. Ch., $34.55, and Sab.
      Sch., $16.97; Mrs. G. W. C., $1                         52.52
    Enfield. Edward Smith, _for Little Rock, Ark._         5,000.00
    Fall River. First Cong. Ch., $82.67; Miss J.
      W. B., $1; J. A. B., $1                                 84.67
    Fitchburgh. Benj. Snow, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                               100.00
    Fitchburgh. D. S. E., $1; Mrs. R. B. M., $1;
      A. C. H., $1; Mrs. L. W., $1; A. F. A.,
      50c.; H. H. Dole, Bundle ¡°Youth¡¯s Companion¡±             4.50
    Fitchburgh. ¡°Friends,¡± _for furnishing
      Straight U._                                             1.00
    Florence. Sab. Sch. Class No. 7, _for Student
      Aid, Talladega C._                                      17.50
    Framingham. Plymouth Ch. and Soc., $128.89;
      Mrs. S. N. Brewer, $5                                  133.89
    Framingham. Young People¡¯s Miss. Circle of
      Plym. Ch., _for Student Aid, Talladega C._              25.00
    Framingham. Plymouth Ch. Sab. Sch., _for
      Student Aid, Fisk U._                                   14.65
    Gardner. Lucy Matthews                                     3.00
    Gloucester. Evan. Cong. Ch. and Soc., to
      const. CHAS. BLATCHFORD, ADAM P. STODDART,
      MISS LUCY S. DAVIS and MISS MIRANDA STEELE
      L. Ms                                                  120.00
    Grantville. Rev. J. Edwards, Books.
    Granville Corners. Mr. and Mrs. C. Holcomb                10.00
    Great Barrington. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.               100.00
    Greenfield. Second Cong. Soc.                             50.71
    Greenwich Village. Daniel Parker                           2.00
    Hadley. Mrs. Rodney Smith and ¡°Friends,¡± Box
      of C. _for Athens, Ga._
    Harwich. Cong. Ch.                                        10.40
    Haverhill. Fourth Cong. Ch., $5; West Cong.
      Ch. and Soc., $4.90; J. U., $1; C. C., $1;
      Mrs. S. C., 50c.                                        12.40
    Holliston. Mrs. W. R. T.                                   1.00
    Holliston. Ladies¡¯ Benev. Soc., 2 Bbls. C. and
      bedding, _for Talladega C._
    Hopkinton. Cong. Sab. Sch., $50; First Cong.
      Sab. Sch., $47.81; First Cong. Ch. and Soc.,
      $5.13                                                  102.94
    Ipswich. Linebrook Ch. and Soc.                            5.39
    Lancaster. Ladies¡¯ Benev. Soc., Box and Bbl.
      of C., _for Talladega C._
    Lawrence. Lawrence St. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                100.00
    Lawrence. Lawrence St. Ch. and Soc., Bbl. of
      bedding, and $8 _for Freight, for Straight
      U._                                                      8.00
    Leicester. ¡°A Friend¡±                                     10.00
    Lowell. Kirk St. Ch. Sab. Sch., $83.94; M. C.,
      $1                                                      84.94
    Marblehead. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                      90.00
    Middleborough. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                   25.74
    Millbury. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                        61.78
    Milford. First. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $83.88;
      Individuals, _for Mag._, by P. P. Parkhurst,
      $3                                                      86.88
    Milford. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for ed. of Indian
      Youth, Hampton N. and A. Inst._                         40.00
    Mittineague. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    Melrose. Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., _for Student
      Aid, Fisk U._                                           50.00
    Methuen. ¡°Methuen,¡± _for John Brown Steamer_              10.00
    Monson. ¡ª¡ª $20; Mrs. Dewey¡¯s S. S. Class, $1;
      S. E. B., $1                                            22.00
    Montery. Mrs. F. A. T.                                     0.50
    New Bedford. Mrs. I. H. Bartlett, Jr. ($10 of
      which _for John Brown Steamer_)                         30.00
    Newburyport. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 2.00
    Newburyport. Ladies, Bbl. of C., _for
      Washington, D.C._
    Newton. Eliot Ch. and Soc.                               239.53
    Newton. Eliot Sewing Soc., Bbl. of C., _for
      Tillotson Inst._
    Newton Centre. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.,
      $64.78; J. W., 50c.                                     65.28
    Newton Centre. Ladies of First Ch., by Mrs. D.
      L. Furber, _for Student Aid, Atlanta U._                50.00
    Newton Centre. B. W. K., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 1.00
    Northampton. ¡°Aunt M,¡± _for John Brown Steamer_            2.00
    Northborough. Mrs. A. E. D. F.                             1.00
    North Brookfield. R. H. B., 50c.; P. K. H.,
      50c.; Mrs. H., 50c.; Mrs. U., 50c.                       2.00
    Northbridge Centre. E. S. P.                               0.30
    Northfield. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $3.20; Mrs. A.
      M. D. A., 51c.                                           3.71
    North Newton. Rev. S. E. L.                                0.50
    Norton. Trin. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          34.00
    North Reading. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          4.00
    North Somerville. ¡°A Friend¡±                               1.00
    Oxford. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., $15.68, and
      Sab. Sch., $18                                          33.68
    Palmer. Second Cong. Ch.                                  15.00
    Petersham. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $3.69; C. B., $1            4.69
    Pittsfield. Mr. and Mrs. C. V. Spear, $100;
      Mrs. J. A. J., $1                                      101.00
    Reading. Old South Ch. and Soc., $28; A. T.
      H., 50c.                                                28.50
    Rockland. Elijah Shaw, $10; Miss Mary N. Shaw,
      $5, _for John Brown Steamer_                            15.00
    Roxbury. Mrs. E. D.                                        0.50
    Rutland. First Ch.                                         8.00
    Uxbridge. W. J.                                            1.00
    Salem. A. P., $1; J. H. T., 60c.                           1.60
    Salisbury and Amesbury. Union Evan. Ch.                   12.50
    Shirley Village. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                        8.66
    Somerville. Mrs. H. T. S.                                  0.50
    South Amherst. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $8, and
      Sab. Sch., $23.50                                       31.50
    Southampton. J. E. Phelps                                  5.00
    South Braintree. A. P. W.                                  1.00
    Southbridge. Cong. Ch. ($30 of which to const.
      REV. JOSEPH DANIELSON L. M.)                           125.49
    South Dartmouth. Mrs. M. P. Staples, _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                           5.00
    South Deerfield. Miss L. E. W.                             1.00
    South Weymouth. Union Cong Ch. and Soc., bal.
      to const. GEORGE REED, ALFRED O. CRAWFORD
      and REV. WILLIAM H. BOLSTER L. Ms                       60.40
    Spencer. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $183.90; Cong.
      Sab. Soc., Primary Dept., $7.50                        191.40
    Springfield. ¡°H. M.¡±                                     500.00
    Springfield. South Cong. Ch., $54.50; First
      Cong. Ch., $49.70                                      104.20
    Stockbridge. Miss Adele Brewer, 2 Bbls. C.,
      _for Raleigh, N.C._
    Sunderland. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                            25.00
    Warren. Cong. Ch.                                         26.20
    Wellesley. Cong. Ch. and Soc., to const.
      ANDREW W. FULLER L. M.                                  48.75
    Wellesley. Ladies, Bbl. of C., _for
      Washington, D.C._
    West Barnstable. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                       10.00
    Westborough. Evan. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $31.27;
      Mrs. E. F., $1                                          32.27
    West Boylston. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., to
      const. REV. F. J. FAIRBANKS L. M.                       75.00
    West Brookfield. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                       25.00
    West Brookfield. Dis. No. 3 Sab. Sch., _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                      7.51
    Westfield. First Cong. Ch.                                 6.34
    West Medway. S. A. C.                                      0.50
    West Medbury. ¡°Friend,¡± _for Student Aid, Fisk
      U._                                                     15.00
    Westminster. Ladies Sew. Circle, Bbl. of C.,
      _for Tillotson Inst._
    West Newbury. Dr. O. Warren, $2; J. C. Carr,
      $2; M. A. R., 50c.                                       4.50
    West Newbury. First Ch. and Parish, 2 Bbls. of
      C. (one of which _for McIntosh Ga._). val.
      $90.
    West Newbury. First Ch. and Parish, Bbl. of C.
      and 77c. _for Freight_                                   0.77
    West Newton. Cong. Sab. Sch., $50, _for
      Student Aid_, and $35 _for furnishing a
      room, Talladega C._                                     85.00
    West Newton. Mrs. S. E. and J. B. W., $1 each,
      _for John Brown Steamer_                                 2.00
    West Newton. Mrs. Sarah Erving                             2.50
    West Somerville. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                        4.00
    West Springfield. Park St. Cong. Ch., $31;
      Second Cong. Ch., $11.84                                42.84
    West Springfield. First Cong. Ch.                         16.00
    Whitinsville. S. A. D.                                     1.00
    Williamsburg. First Cong. Ch. ($5 of which
      _for Hampton N. & A. Inst._)                            63.00
    Williamstown. First Cong. Ch. ($7.49 of which
      _for Indian M._)                                        14.98
    Wilmington. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           28.00
    Winchendon. Atlanta Soc., _for freight_                    2.00
    Woburn. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., $116.41;
      William Temple, $5                                     121.41
    Wolliston. Mrs. H. B. C.                                   0.50
    Worcester. Old South Ch. and Soc., $40.54; Wm.
      Workman, $15; Rev. W. J. W., $1; E. W., $1              57.54
    Worcester. MRS. G. HENRY WHITCOMB, _for
      furnishing a room, Tillotson C. & N. Inst._
      and to const. herself L. M.                             30.00
    Worcester. Young Ladies¡¯ Mission Circle of
      Central Ch., _for furnishing a room,
      Tillotson C. & N. Inst._                                25.00
    Yarmouth. Bbl. of C., _for Florence, Ala._
    Yarmouth. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                         5.00
                                                          ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                         $10,875.60

    LEGACY.

    Athol. Estate of Mrs. D. A. Bowker, by Mrs.
      Mary E. Bowker, Execs.                                  50.00
                                                          ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                         $10,925.60


  RHODE ISLAND, $142.97.

    Little Compton. United Cong. Ch. and Soc.,
      $21.45; ¡°A Friend,¡± $2                                  23.45
    Nayatt. M. A. S.                                           0.51
    Pawtucket. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $15; A. A. F.,
      50c.; Mrs. R. B., 51c.                                  16.01
    Providence. Young Ladies¡¯ Mission Band of
      Beneficent Cong. Ch., _for Student Aid, Fisk
      U._                                                    100.00
    Providence. Arthur A. Fuller                               3.00


  CONNECTICUT, $3,266.19.

    Ansonia. J. H. Bartholomew                                20.00
    Avon. Mrs. S. Andrews, _for John Brown Steamer_           10.00
    Bantam Falls. Cornelia Bradley                             2.00
    Branford. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                20.00
    Berlin. Rev. J. Whittlesey                                10.00
    Bridgeport. Infant Class, by Mrs. C. R.
      Palmer, _for Lady Missionary among Refugees_            20.00
    Bristol. Chas. E. Nott, _for Repairs,
      Talladega C._                                           50.00
    Bristol. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for furnishing a
      room, Stone Hall, Talladega C._                         35.00
    Bristol. Mrs S. T. S.                                      1.00
    Burnside. Miss E. S.                                       1.00
    Chaplin. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                               15.00
    Cheshire. Thomas Savage                                    5.00
    Colchester. Mrs. C. F. S. and Mrs. E. H. O.                1.00
    Cornwall. G. H. Cole                                       1.21
    Cornwall Bridge. George H. Swift                          10.00
    Cromwell. Cong. Ch.                                       55.00
    Deep River. Cong. Ch.                                     26.73
    East Hartford. First Ch.                                  35.00
    Ellington. Cong. Sab. Sch.                                40.00
    Enfield. First Cong. Ch., $50; Miss E. A. L.,
      $1                                                      51.00
    Essex. First Cong. Ch.                                    10.00
    Farmington. Cong. Ch. ($175 of which from
      Henry D. Hawley to const. MISS MARY ELIZA
      HOYT and MRS. ELIZABETH K. THOMAS, L. Ms)              231.54
    Glastonbury. F. C. C., $1; C. W. S., 50c.                  1.50
    Glastonbury. Ladies of First Cong. Ch., Bbl.
      of C., _for Tougaloo_
    Greenville. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Atlanta U._                                             31.60
    Greenwich. Israel Peck                                     5.50
    Greenwich. L. M. W., $1; Miss H. M. T., $1,
      _for John Brown Steamer_                                 2.00
    Guilford. Mrs. Lucy E. Tuttle ($100 of which
      _for John Brown Steamer_)                              120.00
    Guilford. First Cong. Ch.                                 23.00
    Hamden. H. H.                                              0.50
    Hanover. Cong. Ch. (ad¡¯l)                                  6.50
    Hartford. Asylum Hill Cong. Ch.                          158.97
    Hartford. Asylum Hill Cong. Sab. Sch., $25
      _for Talladega C._ and $25 _for Atlanta U._             50.00
    Hartford. Geo. Kellogg, _for Student Aid,
      Atlanta U._                                            100.00
    Hartford. Mrs. Mary C. Bemis ($10 of which
      _for John Brown Steamer_)                               30.50
    Hartford. Miss C. A. J., $1; W. H. C., $1; J.
      W., $1; Mrs. C. C. D., $1; Mrs. E. R. R.,
      $1; H. E. B., $1; Mrs. S. N. K., 50c.; Prof.
      W. T., 60c.; G. M. C., 50c.; Mrs. L. L., 50c.            8.10
    Higganum. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                40.00
    Jewett City. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                           25.00
    Kensington. Mrs. M. Hotchkiss                              5.50
    Ledyard. Cong. Ch.                                        22.00
    Lyme. Rev. William B. Cary, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    Marlborough. Cong. Ch. and Soc., $20.62; Cong.
      Sab. Sch., $19.38, _for furnishing room,
      Talladega C._                                           40.00
    Meriden. Robert P. Rand, $5; A. B., $1                     6.00
    Middletown. W. M. D.                                       1.00
    Milford. First Cong. Ch.                                  25.70
    Milford. Sab. Sch. of First Cong. Ch., _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                      5.00
    Montville. First Cong. Ch.                                 5.30
    Moodus. Amasa Day Chaffee, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    Moose Meadow. Mrs. H. L. E.                                0.51
    Naugatuck. Cong. Ch.                                     107.00
    New Britain. Augustus Stanley, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    New Britain. Mrs. O. C. S., $1; A. A., 51c.                1.51
    New Haven. Dwight Place Ch., by Nelson Hall,
      $50; Mrs. Sylvia Johnson, $10; ¡°A Friend,¡±
      $3; ¡°W. C. S.,¡± $2; E. A. P., $1; J. E., $1;
      Mrs. F. P. G., $1; Miss E. A. B., $1; H. N.
      D., $1; Mrs. R. P. B., $1; Mrs. R. U., 50c.;
      E. C., 50c.; G. W. N., 50c.                             72.50
    New Haven. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for Talladega C._                  0.75
    New Haven. Dr. Wm. B. De Forest, _for
      Talladega C._                                           25.00
    New Haven. North Ch. Miss. Sab. Sch., _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                     20.00
    New London. Second Cong. Ch.                             631.43
    New London. Mrs. J. N. Harris, _for Talladega
      C._                                                     50.00
    New London. ¡°Friends,¡± Box Pictures and C.
      _for Talladega C._
    New Milford. Cong. Ch., $90, to const. GEORGE
      HINE and T. DWIGHT MERWIN L. Ms.; Mrs. F. G.
      B., $1                                                  91.00
    Norfolk. M. A. C.                                          0.51
    Northford. Cong. Sab. Sch., $10; Miss F. L.
      S., $1, _for John Brown Steamer_                        11.00
    North Madison. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          9.20
    North Woodstock. Cong. Ch.                                25.74
    Norwalk. First Cong. Ch. and Soc., $100; Mrs.
      Wm. B. St. John, $3                                    103.00
    Norwich. W. R. B., 50c.; Miss R. C. W., 50c.               1.00
    Norwich Town. First Cong. Ch.                             59.50
    Plantsville. Cong. Sab. Sch., $30.50, _for
      Hampton N. and A. Inst._, and $13.35 _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                     43.85
    Plymouth. Sab. Sch., by L. D. Baldwin, Supt.,
      _for Student Aid, Talladega C._                         50.00
    Plymouth. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for Talladega C._                   3.00
    Pomfret. First Cong. Ch.                                  27.00
    Prospect. B. B. Brown                                     20.00
    Putnam. Class No. 14, Sec. Cong. Ch. Sab.
      Sch., _for John Brown Steamer_ and to const.
      WALTER P. WHITE L. M.                                   30.00
    Saybrook. Cong. Ch.                                       10.43
    Sharon. Mrs. B. S.                                         1.00
    South Coventry. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student
      Aid, Talladega C._                                      12.50
    South Windsor. First Cong. Ch., _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          10.00
    South Windsor. C. W.                                       0.60
    Stafford Springs. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for
      Student Aid, Fisk U._                                   25.00
    Stamford. ¡°Cheerful Workers,¡± _for Strieby
      Hall, T. U._                                            25.00
    Stonington. Rev. H. B. Mead, $5; Ladies of
      Cong. Ch., $5, _for Student Aid, Talladega
      C._                                                     10.00
    Thompsonville. D. P.                                       1.00
    Tolland. MRS. LUCY L. CLOUGH, $50, _for
      Indian_ and $50 _for Chinese M._, and to
      const. herself L. M.                                   100.00
    Vernon. Mrs. E. P.                                         1.00
    Warren. First Cong. Ch. and Soc.                          48.25
    Washington. ¡°Z.,¡± _for Indian M._                          1.00
    Washington. Rev. W. C.                                     0.51
    Watertown. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_ and to const. CHARLES B. WOODWARD
      L. M.                                                   61.00
    West Haven. Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          10.00
    Willington. Mrs. H. C. Harbison                            3.00
    Winsted. Mrs. M. A. Mitchell, _for Student
      Aid. Talladega C._                                      20.00
    Woodbridge. Cong. Ch.                                     12.00
    Woodbridge. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    Woodbury. First Cong. Ch., $23.50; Mrs. E. L.
      Curtiss, $10.50; Mrs. H. D. C., 50c.                    34.50
    ¡ª¡ª. ¡°Friend¡±                                              17.50


  NEW YORK, $1,793.37.

    Albany. D. A. T.                                           1.00
    Baldwinsville. Harvard Carter                             20.00
    Bangor. Individuals, by Rev. W. C. Sexton                  1.50
    Brooklyn. Mrs. Mary E. Whiton $20; Miss E. O.,
      $1; H. W. B., 50c.                                      21.50
    Canandaigua. H. Gregory                                    3.00
    Canastota. Enoch Northrup, $5; Mr. and Mrs. R.
      H. Childs, $5                                           10.00
    Castile. Rev. Jeremiah Porter                             10.00
    Chestertown. Mrs. S. H. Foster, _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          10.00
    Churchville. Mission Circle of Cong. Sab.
      Sch., _for John Brown Steamer_                          10.00
    Cohoes. Mrs. I. Terry                                      5.00
    Coxsackie. Rev. M. Lusk                                    5.00
    Crown Point. ¡°L. H. P.¡±                                   50.00
    Ellington. H. B. Rice, $5; Mrs. Eliza Rice,
      $4; A. C. R., $1, _for John Brown Steamer_              10.00
    Chenango Forks. Cong. Ch., $9; Mrs. M. H., 50c.            9.50
    Fairport. First Cong. Ch.                                 89.87
    Franklin. Mrs. I. H. Penfield, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 5.00
    Gainesville. Box of C., _for Tougaloo U._
    Galway. Presb. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.00
    Galway. Delia C. Davis, _for Student Aid,
      Atlanta U._                                             10.00
    Gouverneur. Mrs. H. D. S.                                  0.50
    Harpersfield. G. S. H.                                     1.00
    Hudson. Mrs. D. A. Jones                                  15.00
    Hume. L. H. P.                                             1.00
    Ilion. Mrs. Sophia Miller ($1 of which _for
      John Brown Steamer_)                                     7.00
    Le Roy. A. McEwen                                          5.00
    Lima. Chas. D. Miner, Sen., $5; Mrs. A. E. M.,
      50c.                                                     5.50
    Locust Valley. Mrs. Sarah Palmer                           6.00
    Marcellus. Mrs. L. H.                                      1.00
    Middlesex. Lester and E. J. Adams                         10.00
    Millbrook. Mrs. J. W. C.                                   0.50
    New Lebanon Centre. Ladies Soc., Bbl. of C.,
      _for Lassitus Mills, N.C._
    New York. Gen. Clinton B. Fisk, $30, to const.
      JAMES D. BURRUS, L. M.; Dr. A. S. Ball, $5;
      F. J. S. K., $1                                         36.00
    New York. John Dwight, $100 _for John Brown
      Steamer_; $100 _for Tougaloo U._                       200.00
    New York. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for Tillotson C. & N.
      Inst._                                                 100.00
    New York. S. T. Gordon ($10 of which _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                         10.50
    New York. Broadway Tab. Sab. Sch., Class No.
      11, _for Student Aid, Fisk U._                          10.00
    New York. W. A. M., _for John Brown Steamer_               1.00
    New York. Gen. Wager Swayne, Bbl. of Books; C.
      L. Mead, Suit of Clothing, _for Talladega C._
    Oriskany. Albert Halsey, $5; Mrs. R. W. P., $1             6.00
    Perry Centre. Ladies¡¯ Benev. Soc., $13.91, and
      Box of C.                                               13.91
    Poughkeepsie. Sab. Sch. of First Cong. Ch.,
      _for John Brown Steamer_                                10.00
    Rochester. A. Hubregtre                                    2.00
    Saratoga Springs. Mrs. A. M. Wheeler                       2.00
    Tompkinsville. Mrs. Maria Snyder                           5.00
    Troy. Mary and Margaret J. Cushman                         3.00
    Vernon Centre. Mary R. Judson                              3.00
    Walton. First Cong. Ch., $56.26; Mrs. T. J.
      O., 50c.                                                56.76
    Warsaw. Cong. Soc.                                        24.04
    Watertown. Geo. Cook                                       2.00
    Waterville. Mrs. J. Candee, $3; Mrs. Wm.
      Winchell, $2                                             5.00
    Watkins. E. D.                                             1.00
    West Chazy. Daniel Bassett                                 5.00
    West Farms. J. A.                                          1.00
    Whitestown. ¡ª¡ª                                             5.00
    ¡ª¡ª ¡°Friends¡±                                              25.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $861.08

    LEGACIES.

    Dryden. Estate of Lucy B. Eastman, by Geo. E.
      Goodrich                                               200.00
    Homer. Estate of Mrs. Celinda E. Hubbard, by
      Dea. Manley Hobart, Ex.                                725.29
    Jefferson. Estate of Miss Hubbard, by Miss S.
      Rulifson                                                 7.00
                                                           ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                          $1,793.37


  NEW JERSEY, $212.00.

    Chester. ¡°A Friend¡±                                       25.00
    Irvington. Rev. A. Underwood, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                               100.00
    Jersey City. Tabernacle Cong. Sab. Sch., _for
      Student Aid, Fisk U._                                   40.00
    Jersey City. S. E. H.                                     10.00
    Newark. R. D. W.                                           1.00
    Paterson. P. Van Houten                                    5.00
    Trenton. A. P. Sherman, $10, _for John Brown
      Steamer_; S. T. Sherman, $10, _for Mendi M._            20.00
    Trenton. Mrs. Olivia S. Fuller                            11.00


  PENNSYLVANIA, $91.50.

    Allentown. Rev. C. M.                                      0.50
    Canton. H. Sheldon                                         5.00
    Centre Road Station. J. A. Scovel                         10.00
    Conneaut. Sab. Sch. of First Cong. Ch., _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                     10.00
    Corry. Cong. Ch.                                           2.00
    Cowdersport. ¡°Postal Order¡±                                5.00
    Honesdale. Mrs. H. Weston                                  3.00
    Kennett Square. H. M. D.                                   1.00
    Philadelphia. W. P. F. and Others, $1.50; Rev.
      H. L. P., $1                                             2.50
    Pittston. James Challenger, $2.50 and Box of
      Books                                                    2.50
    Scranton. F. E. Nettleton                                 15.00
    South Bethlehem. H. D. Kitchell                            5.00
    Washington. Mrs. M. H. McFarland, _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          25.00
    West Alexander. J. McCoy and wife                          5.00


  OHIO, $1,576.23.

    Alliance. Mrs. J. L. Thomas                                1.50
    Ashland. Mrs. Eliza Thompson                               2.28
    Belpre. Cong. Ch.                                          3.94
    Bellevue. ¡°Happy Workers¡± Miss. So. of Cong.
      Ch., _for Mendi M._                                     10.00
    Berea. James S. Smedley, $10; F. S. Smedley,
      $3; F. B., $1, _for John Brown Steamer_                 14 00
    Berea. James S. Smedley                                    5.00
    Brooklyn Village. M. L. M.                                 1.00
    Cincinnati. ¡°Agamemnon¡±                                   25.00
    Claridon. Rev. C. C. Starbuck, _for Student
      Aid, Talladega C._                                       6.00
    Cleveland. Ladies of First Cong. Ch., _for
      Student Aid, Talladega C._                              70.00
    Cleveland. S. H. Sheldon, _for Talladega C._              50.00
    Cleveland. Euclid Av. Cong. Ch.                           28.64
    Dayton. E. P.                                              0.51
    Dayton. D. E. McSherry & Co., one self-opening
      and closing gate, _for Talladega C._
    Delaware. William Bevan                                    5.00
    East Liverpool. A. W. A., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 1.00
    Elyria. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Fisk U._                                                30.00
    Fosteria. C. M.                                            1.00
    Fulton. D. C. H.                                           0.50
    Gambier. J. S. Sawer                                       5.00
    Geneva. Mrs. S. Kingsbury, $8; ¡°A Friend,¡± $1,
      _for John Brown Steamer_                                 9.00
    Greenfield. Wm. Smith                                      4.00
    Harrison. Dr. J. D. B.                                     5.00
    Huntsburgh. A. E. Millard and Mrs. M. E.
      Millard, $5 ea.                                         10.00
    Jefferson. J. A. Howells, $2.50.; James
      Whittemore, $2.50; Rev. S. W. D., $1;
      ¡°Friends,¡± $1.45, _for Talladega C._                     7.45
    Kelloggsville. Rev. Hinds Smith, _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                           2.00
    Kingsville. Myron Whiting, $20; Jeremiah Luce
      and wife, $6                                            26.00
    Marietta. Rev. C. S. Irwin and wife                        1.25
    Marysville. O. M. S.                                       1.00
    Medina. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc. ($1.50 of which
      from a Sab. Sch. class), _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           10.00
    Medina. E. J. M., _for Student Aid, Talladega
      C._                                                      0.50
    North Benton. Margret J. Hartzell                          3.00
    North Bloomfield. ¡°Friends,¡± _for Student Aid,
      Talladega. C._                                          35.00
    North Kingsville. Rev. E. J. Comings, $10; B.
      S. Noyes, $2                                            12.00
    Norwalk. Rev. Chas. N. Fitch, _for Cooking
      Sch. Talladega C._                                       6.00
    Oberlin. Ladies Soc. of First Cong. Ch. _for
      Lady Missionary, Atlanta. Ga._                          75.00
    Oberlin. First Cong. Sab. Sch. _for Talladega
      C._                                                     50.00
    Oberlin. Second Cong. Ch., _for Student Aid,
      Atlanta U._                                             30.00
    Oberlin. ¡°A Friend,¡± $25; L. F., $1., _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                     26.00
    Oberlin. First Cong Ch., Mrs. C. G. Finney,
      $20; Second Cong Ch., $12.94; Individuals,
      _for Mag._, by Rev. Geo. Thompson, $4.50;
      Mrs. J. F. B., 51c.                                     37.95
    Painesville. First Ch., Hon. Reuben Hitchcock,
      _for Lady Missionary, Athens, Ala._                    500.00
    Painesville. Hon. Reuben Hitchcock, _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          50.00
    Painesville. First Cong. Ch., $42.40; Mrs. L.
      S. and E. S., $1; By Rev. G. R. M., _for
      Freight_, $1                                            44.40
    Parisville. D. D.                                          0.50
    Peru. Henry Clapp, _for Talladega C._                      5.00
    Peru. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for Student Aid, Talladega
      C._                                                      0.50
    Richwood. Edward D. Jones                                  5.00
    Ruggles. Mrs. H. T.                                        0.50
    Sandusky. Ladies¡¯ Miss. Soc. Box of C. and $3,
      _for Freight, for Theo. Dept., Talladega C._             3.00
    Sandusky. Chester Woolworth                                5.00
    Saybrook. Wm. C. Sexton                                    2.00
    Seville. First Cong. Ch. of Guilford, $10;
      Mrs. A. C. Dowd, $5; T. B. Dowd, $5, _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                     20.00
    Sicily. S. W. Huggins, $10; J. F. Cumberland,
      $5                                                      15.00
    Troy. Cong. Ch.                                            7.00
    Twinsburgh. J. R. Parmelee                                 2.00
    Unionville. Rev. J. M. Fraser and Mrs. H. B.
      Fraser, _for Chinese M. in Cal._                        50.00
    Unionville. Mrs. H. B. Fraser, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                               100.00
    Unionville. Package of Goods, _for Selma, Ala._
    Wakeman. Second Cong. Ch.                                 10.85
    West Andover. Cong. Ch.                                    5.00
    West Williamsfield. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                    10.00
    Wellington. ¡°Young Ladies Mission Circle,¡±
      _for John Brown Steamer_                                10.00
    Wellington. A. H. A.                                       0.50
    Willoughby. Mary P. Hastings                              10.00
    Willoughby. Mrs. C. A. Garlick ($1 _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                          1.50
                                                           ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                           1,469.27

    LEGACY.

    Cleveland. Estate of Chas. French                        106.96
                                                           ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                           1,576.23


  INDIANA, $40.

    Dublin. H. M.                                              1.00
    New Corydon. Geo. Stolz                                    5.00
    Newville. A. D.                                            1.00
    South Bend. R. BURROUGHS to const. himself L.
      M.                                                      30.00
    Sparta. John Hawkswell, $2.50; Mrs. L. R., 50c.            3.00


  ILLINOIS, $750.89.

    Altamont. E. P., _for Student Aid, Talladega
      C._                                                      1.00
    Altona. Cong. Ch., $3.81; Ladies Mis. Soc.
      Cong. Ch., $5                                            8.81
    Altona. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 5.00
    Amboy. C. A. Church ($5 of which _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                          5.50
    Beecher. Cong. Ch.                                        10.30
    Buda. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown Steamer_            5.87
    Bunker Hill. J. W. B.                                      0.50
    Chicago. First Cong. Ch., $114.41; Lawndale
      Cong. Ch., $10.50; W. S., $1; H. B., $1; J.
      B., 50c.                                               127.41
    Chicago. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc. of New Eng. Cong.
      Ch., _for Lady Missionary, Mobile, Ala._                 8.04
    Chicago. Ladies. Bbl. of C., _for Washington,
      D.C._
    Cobden. E. W. T.                                           0.50
    Danville. Mrs. Anna M. Swan                                5.00
    Elmwood. K. H. Reed                                       20.00
    Elgin. Mrs. E. E. C. B.                                    1.00
    Farmington. Phineas Chapman                               50.00
    Galesburg. E. A. C. and Mrs. H. S. H., 50c. ea.            1.00
    Geneseo. First Cong. Ch., $8.85; First Cong.
      Sab. Sch., $21.35; Mrs. E. L. Atkinson, $5              35.20
    Geneseo. ¡°Band of Sisters,¡± _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           25.00
    Geneseo. ¡°Busy Workers,¡± _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                            5.00
    Geneseo. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for John Brown Steamer_              1.00
    Glencoe. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown Steamer_              10.00
    Granville. ¡°Merry Workers,¡± _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.10
    Hampton. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           11.00
    Highland Park. L. S. Bingham                               5.00
    Huntley. Rev. D. Chapman and Son, _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                           5.00
    Kewannee. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Fisk U._                                                25.00
    La Grange. John W. Bushnell ($1 of which _for
      John Brown Steamer_)                                     6.00
    Lisbon. Dr. G. K.                                          0.50
    Lombard. Sab. Sch. of First Ch., _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          10.00
    Lyndon. Mrs. M. W.                                         0.50
    Lowell. V. G. Lutz                                         5.00
    Maywood. R. B. B., _for John Brown Steamer_                1.00
    Morris. Miss N. Sample                                     5.00
    Neponset. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 7.50
    Quincy. L. Kingman                                         5.00
    Rock Falls. Rev. R. A.                                     0.60
    Roseville. Mr. and Mrs. Axtell, Box
      Ornithological Specimens and Bbl. of Hats,
      _for Talladega C._
    Odell. Mrs. H. E. Davis, $10; Mrs. John
      MacWilliams, $10                                        20.00
    Ottawa. Cong. Ch., $11.55; Cong. Sab. Sch.,
      $25.82                                                  37.37
    Payson. J. K. Scarborough, $60, to const. JOHN
      F. SPENCER and MRS. HARRIET S. KAY, L. Ms.;
      Payson Cong. Sab. Sch., $20                             80.00
    Port Byron. Ladies¡¯ Miss. Soc.                             5.00
    Sheffield. Cong. Sab. Sch. (ad¡¯l), _for Lady
      Missionary, Savannah, Ga._                               4.25
    Sycamore. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           50.00
    Sycamore. Rev. A. S.                                       0.50
    Stillman Valley. Cong. Ch.                                10.44
    Thomasborough. H. M. Seymour                               5.00
    Toulon. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Fisk U._                                                13.50
    Tonica. J. C. Heywood                                     10.50
    Union. Union Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 5.00
    Victoria. Cong. Ch.                                        6.00
    Washington. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for Student Aid,
      Tougaloo U._                                            30.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $700.80

    LEGACY.

    Morrison. Estate of John Roy, by Frank
      Clendenin, Admr.                                        50.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $750.89


  MICHIGAN, $1,102.46.

    Allegan. Mrs. R. E. Booth, _for furnishing a
      room Tillotson T. & N. Inst._                           30.00
    Alpine & Walker. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                           1.00
    Battle Creek. Cong. and Presb. Sab. Sch., _for
      Student Aid, Talladega C._                              11.00
    Church¡¯s Corners. Cong. Ch., $16, and Sab.
      Sch., $10.80; James Robbins, C. Foller and
      A. W. Douglass, $2 each; Friends, $5.60                 38.40
    Chelsea. John C. Winans                                   50.00
    Covert. Cong. Sab. Sch., $20; A. S. Packard,
      $20, _for John Brown Steamer_                           40.00
    Custer. Rev. L. Curtiss                                    3.00
    Dexter. Dennis Warner                                     10.00
    Detroit. Mrs. P., _for John Brown Steamer_                 1.00
    Detroit. J. C. H., $1; Mrs. C. H. L., 50c.                 1.50
    East Saginaw. Cong. Ch., $92.91, to const.
      LUCIUS C. STORRS, EDWIN W. GLYNN and
      CLARENCE L. JUDD L. Ms.; Mrs. M. S., 50c.               93.41
    Grand Blanc. Cong. Ch. Sab. Sch., _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                           5.00
    Grand Rapids. Abijah Wood, to const. HARVEY J.
      HOLISTER L. M.                                          30.00
    Greenville. M. Rutan, _for Tillotson C. & N.
      Inst._                                                 500.00
    Greenville. ¡°Friends,¡± Box of books and C.,
      and $3.65, _for freight, for Talladega C._               3.65
    Jackson. Mrs. R. M. Bennett                                2.00
    Kalamazoo. Mrs. H. C. B.                                   0.50
    Laingsburg. Cong. Ch.                                     10.00
    Muskegon. Cong. Ch.                                       15.00
    Olivet. A. T.                                              1.00
    Port Huron. C. G. M., 50c.; Miss A. B., 50c.               1.00
    Three Oaks. Cong. Ch.                                     40.00
    Union City. Cong. Sab. Sch., $13, bal. to
      const. MRS. ALICE M. COLLINS L. M.; Mrs. D.
      B. W. and Mrs. E. J. H., 50c. ea.                       14.00
    Whitehall. B. H.                                           1.00
    ¡ª¡ª ¡°A Western Man¡± ($100 of which _for John
      Brown Steamer_ and $50 _for Indian M._)                200.00


  WISCONSIN, $882.43.

    Appleton. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc. of Cong. Ch.,
      _for Lady Missionary, Talladega, Ala._                  10.00
    Arena. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc., _for Lady
      Missionary, Talladega, Ala._                             2.30
    Baraboo. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           10.00
    Beloit. Sab. Sch. Class of First Cong. Ch.,
      _for Student Aid, Talladega C._                          2.50
    Beloit. Dr. A.                                             1.00
    Bristol & Paris. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc., _for Lady
      Missionary, Talladega, Ala._                            10.00
    Columbus. J. Q. A.                                         1.00
    Fond du Lac. Mrs. R. M. Lewis, $2.50; Mrs. R.
      W. B., 50c.                                              3.00
    Geneva Lake. Presb. Ch., $35.40; W. H. H., 50c.           35.90
    Geneva Lake. Mrs. H. A. Allan, _for repairs,
      Talladega C._                                           10.00
    Madison. First Cong. Ch., to const. MRS. SARAH
      D. WRIGHT, MRS. ELLEN W. LAMB, EDWIN SUMNER,
      HIRAM JOHNSON and WILLIAM ANDERSON L. Ms.              100.00
    Menasha. Cash                                              5.00
    Milwaukee. Grand Av. Cong. Ch.                            68.23
    Milwaukee. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc. of Grand Av.
      Cong. Ch., _for Lady Missionary, Talladega,
      Ala._                                                   25.00
    Milwaukee. Young People¡¯s Miss. Circle of
      Grand Av. Cong. Ch., _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           16.00
    Milwaukee. Rev. Mr. Ide¡¯s Children, _for
      Reading Room, Talladega C._                              4.00
    Racine. D. D. N.                                           1.00
    Racine. Cong. Ch., box of C. _for Talladega C._
    Ripon. ¡°Family of sister of Hon. E. P. Smith¡±
      (ad¡¯l,) _for furnishing room, Talladega C._             10.00
    Ripon. Miss Mary Jarvis, _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                            7.00
    Rosendale. Cong. Sab. Sch., $5; Mrs. H. M. C.,
      $1, _for John Brown Steamer_                             6.00
    Salem. William Munson                                     50.00
    Sheboygan. D. B.                                           1.00
    Stevens¡¯ Point. Mrs. F. H. Montague                        3.00
    Whitewater. Woman¡¯s Miss. Soc., _for Lady
      Missionary, Talladega, Ala._                             0.50
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $382.43

    LEGACY.

    Monroe. Estate of Mrs. Orissa Rood, by J. L.
      Rood, Ex.                                              500.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $882.43


  IOWA, $660.94.

    Burlington. Cong. Ch. ($30 of which to const.
      THOMAS R. RANKIN, L. M.) $51.16; Mrs. R. G.
      H., 50c.                                                51.66
    Cedar Rapids. Mrs. R. D. Stephens, _for
      Student Aid, Straight U._                               10.00
    Cedar Falls. Mrs. T. R. Robbins                            3.00
    Clay. Cong. Ch. $3, and Sab. Sch. $4                       7.00
    Danville. Cong. Ch.                                       14.00
    Davenport. Geo. W. Ells ($5 of which _for John
      Brown Steamer_)                                         15.00
    Decorah. First Cong. Ch.                                  44.05
    Dubuque. Mrs. James Beach, Bbl. of C., _for
      Talladega C._
    Dubuque. Mrs. J. B.                                        1.00
    Earlville. Cong. Ch.                                       3.28
    Eldora. Cong. Ch.                                         10.00
    Fontanelle. Ladies, _for Freight_                          2.50
    Fort Dodge. Cong. Ch.                                      5.70
    Franklin. Cong. Ch.                                        2.12
    Genoa Bluffs. Ladies of Cong. Ch., _for Lady
      Missionary, New Orleans_                                 3.00
    Gilman. Rev. F. Magoun and ¡°Friends¡± _for
      furnishing a room, Stone Hall, Talladega C._            35.00
    Iowa City. J. T. T. and Mrs. E. A. B.                      1.00
    Le Grand. T. P. Craig ($1 _for John Brown
      Steamer_)                                                5.00
    Marion. Ladies of Cong. Ch., _for Lady
      Missionary, New Orleans_                                15.00
    Marion. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                 5.00
    McGregor. Woman¡¯s Missionary Soc.                         12.21
    New Hampton. Woman¡¯s Cent. Soc.                            2.35
    Oskaloosa. Daniel Lane                                     5.00
    Prairie City. Cong. Ch.                                    4.40
    Sherrills Mount. German Cong. Ch.                          2.00
    Wittemberg. Cong. Ch.                                      4.85
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $264.12

    LEGACY.

    Tabor. Estate of D. E. Woods, by Rev. John Todd          396.82
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                            $660.94


  MINNESOTA, $412.28.

    Austin. Cong. Ch.                                         24.34
    Excelsior. Cong. Ch.                                      10.00
    Faribault. Cong. Ch.                                      30.84
    Dean. A. B. Hilts ($5 of which _for John Brown
      Steamer_)                                                6.00
    Glyndon. Sab. Sch. of ¡°The Ch. at Glyndon,¡±
      $10; Infant Class, $1, _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                11.00
    Hamilton. Cong. Ch.                                        5.00
    Hutchinson. Cong. Ch.                                      2.00
    Northfield. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for Student Aid,
      Talladega C._                                           41.26
    Northfield. A. L. and Mrs. C. T. N., 50c. ea.              1.00
    Minneapolis. Plymouth Ch., $36.47; Second
      Cong. Ch., $2; J. G. N., 55c.; J. C., 55c.              39.57
    Minneapolis. E. D. First Cong. Ch.                       150.00
    Rochester. Cong. Ch.                                      40.27
    Tivoli. L. H., _for John Brown Steamer_                    1.00
    Winona. Cong. Ch. ($30 of which to const. MISS
      ELIZABETH WHITMAN L. M.)                                50.00


  KANSAS, $12.26.

    Bavaria. A. M.                                             0.50
    Emporia. Cong. Ch                                         11.76


  NEBRASKA, $71.24.

    Arborville. Cong. Ch.                                      1.96
    Nebraska City. ¡°A Friend.¡±                                11.00
    Omaha. Cong. Ch.                                          34.58
    Omaha. ¡°K. & C.,¡± _for John Brown Steamer_                10.00
    Randolph. Cong. Ch.                                        1.00
    Red Cloud. Cong. Ch.                                       1.00
    Silver. Melinda Bowen                                     10.00
    Wayland. Cong. Ch.                                         1.70


  DAKOTA, 50c.

    Yankton. Mrs. W. H. H. B.                                  0.50


  UTAH, 51c.

    Wood¡¯s Cross. Rev. D. P.                                   0.51


  COLORADO, $37.91.

    Denver. First Cong. Ch., $36.90, to const.
      REV. J. V. HILTON L. M.; J. W. S., 50c.; A.
      R. B., 51c.                                             37.91


  CALIFORNIA, $533.31.

    Benicia. Mrs. N. P. S.                                     0.51
    San Francisco. Receipts of the California
      Chinese Mission                                        532.80


  WASHINGTON TER., $22.85.

    Skokomish. Cong. Ch.                                      22.85


  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, $2.30.

    Washington. ¡°Little Rills of Liensmary,¡± by
      Rev. M. Porter Snell                                     2.30


  KENTUCKY, $10.20.

    Berea. Cong. Ch.                                          10.20


  TENNESSEE, $1,000.25.

    Memphis. Le Moyne Inst., Tuition                         198.25
    Memphis. Hattie A. Hilton                                  5.00
    Nashville. Fisk U., Tuition                              787.00
    Nashville. Prof. F. A. Chase                              10.00


  NORTH CAROLINA, $143.55.

    Wilmington. Tuition                                      138.55
    Wilmington. Cong. Ch.                                      5.00


  SOUTH CAROLINA, $289.50.

    Charleston. Avery Inst., Tuition                         289.50


  GEORGIA, $822.96.

    Atlanta. Atlanta U., Tuition                             408.61
    Atlanta. Storrs Sch., Tuition                            166.80
    Macon. Lewis High Sch., Tuition                          100.85
    McIntosh. Dorchester Academy, Tuition                     15.70
    Savannah. Beach Inst., Tuition                           126.00
    Savannah. ¡°A Friend,¡± _for Atlanta U._                     5.00


  ALABAMA. $521.64.

    Anniston. Tuition                                          5.00
    Athens. Trinity Sch., Tuition                              7.25
    Childersburg. Rev. A. J.                                   1.00
    Marion. Cong. Ch.                                         33.80
    Marion. Rev. A. W. C. _for John Brown Steamer_             1.00
    Mobile. Emerson Inst., Tuition                           154.85
    Mobile. Cong. Ch.                                          1.00
    Montgomery. Public Fund                                  175.00
    Montgomery. M. Blanche Curtiss, _for Student
      Aid, Atlanta U._                                        18.00
    Selma. Cong. Sab. Sch., _for John Brown
      Steamer_                                                10.20
    Selma. D. G. & W. H. G.                                    1.00
    Shelby Iron Works. G. G. F.                                0.50
    Talladega. Talladega C., Tuition                         103.04
    Talladega. Woman¡¯s Miss. Ass¡¯n., _for John
      Brown Steamer_                                          10.00


  MISSISSIPPI, $136.30.

    Tougaloo. Tougaloo U., Tuition                           129.00
    Tougaloo. Rev. G. S. Pope, _for Freight_                   7.30


  LOUISIANA, $169.50.

    New Orleans. Straight U. Tuition                         169.50


  FLORIDA, $60.70.

    Monticello. Rent                                          50.00
    Orange City. ¡°One of the least of His
      Disciples¡± ($10 of which _for John Brown
      Steamer_)                                               10.70


  TEXAS, $103.95.

    Austin. Tillotson C. and N. Inst., Tuition               101.25
    Corpus Christi. Cong. Ch. and Sab. Sch., _for
      John Brown Steamer_                                      2.70


  CANADA, $2.50.

    Caledonia. A. C. Buck                                      2.00
    Montreal. H. G.                                            0.50


  INCOME FUND, $1,154.

    Avery Fund, _for Mendi M._                               694.00
    Graves Library Fund, _for Atlanta U._                    150.00
    Theological Endowment Fund, _for Howard U._              225.00
    Scholarship Fund, _for Fisk U._                           50.00
    Greenwich (N.Y.) Town Bonds, _for Straight U._            35.00
                                                          ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
        Total                                            $28,688.77
    Total from Oct. 1 to Jan. 31                         $83,893.39

         *       *       *       *       *


  FOR ARTHINGTON MISSION.

    Pawlet, Vt. A. Flower                                      5.00
    Hartford, Conn. Park Cong. Ch.                           158.14
    Terryville, Conn. R. D. H. Allen                          50.00
    New York, N.Y. John Dwight                               100.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
        Total                                               $313.14

         *       *       *       *       *


    Receipts of the California Chinese Mission, E.
      Palache, Treasurer, from Sept. 28, 1881, to
      Jan. 4, 1882, applicable to the expenses of
      the year ending Aug. 31, 1881, being in
      fulfillment of pledges made for that purpose:

      I. FROM AUXILIARIES, VIZ.¡ª

    Petaluma Mission                                          $9.00
    Sacramento Mission. Seven memberships                     14.00
    Santa Barbara Mission. Rev. S. M. Crowther                 2.00
    Stockton Mission                                           2.00
                                                              ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
        Total                                                $27.00

      II. FROM CHURCHES¡ª

    Oakland First Cong. Ch.                                   13.25
    Rio Vista Cong. Ch. Mrs. M. L. Merritt                     5.00
    San Francisco. First Cong. Ch. Collection,
      $3.00; Three annual memberships. $6.00                   9.00
    Plymouth. Mrs. S. S. Smith                                 2.00
    Bethany Ch. Eighteen annual memberships,
      $36.00; Miss Lilian Ladd, $2.50; Friends,
      which, with previous donations, constitute
      Mrs. JANE C. SNOOK and Miss JESSIE S. WORLEY
      life members, $11.00: An Unknown Friend,
      50c.; D. S. Woo, adl. to const. himself life
      member, $17.00; Jee Gam. adl. to const.
      himself life member, $17.50                             84.50
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
      Total                                                 $113.75

      III. FROM INDIVIDUAL DONORS¡ª

    Miss M. C. Waterbury                                     $50.00
    N. P. Cole, Esq.                                          25.00
    Rev. J. Rowel                                             20.00
                                                              ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
      Total                                                  $95.00

      IV. FROM EASTERN FRIENDS¡ª

    Bangor, Me. E. R. Burpee. Esq.                          $100.00
    Bangor, Me. ¡°Almost Home¡±                                 25.00
    Grinnell, Ia. Bethel Mission Sunday-School.
      Miss Helen Brewer¡¯s class                                1.00
    Montana. Lee Haim                                          2.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
      Total                                                 $128.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
      Grand Total                                           $363.75

    Also the following amounts, applicable to the
      expenses of the year ending Aug. 31. 1882:

      I. AUXILIARIES, VIZ.¡ª
    Marysville. Collection at Anniversary        $24.55
    Two annual memberships                         4.00
    Chinese monthly offerings                     22.25
                                                  ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª      $50.80
    Oroville. Chinese monthly offerings                        2.20
    Petaluma. Chinese monthly offerings                        4.45
    Sacramento. Chinese monthly offerings                     18.50
    Santa Barbara. Collection at
          Anniversary                              2.30
    Twelve annual memberships                     24.00
    Chinese monthly offerings                     18.00
                                                  ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª       44.30
    Santa Cruz. Chinese monthly offerings                     12.50
    Stockton. Rev. J. Hooper                       1.00
    Chinese monthly offerings                      9.00
                                                  ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª       10.00
                                                             ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
        Total                                               $142.75

      II. FROM CHURCHES¡ª

    Grass Valley Cong. Ch. Mrs. H. Scott                       2.00
    Los Angeles Cong. Ch. Miss A. L. Peabody                   2.00
    Oakland First Cong. Ch. collection                         9.30
    Rio Vista Cong. Ch. Mrs. A. J. Gardner                     2.00
    San Francisco First Cong. Ch. Three annual
      members                                                  7.00
    Third Ch. Mrs. Boole                                       2.00
    Westminster Cong. Ch. Rev. I. Jacobus                      2.00
                                                              ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
                                                             $26.30
                                                              ¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª¡ª
        Total                                               $169.05

                                      H. W. HUBBARD, Treas.,
                                                56 Reade St., N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *




Several unusually important books for Sunday-school and Parish
Libraries will be issued by D. LOTHROP & CO. during February.


                            NOW READY.

  Hall in the Grove. Pansy¡¯s new story. Price, $1.50.

  To-Days and Yesterdays. By the author of June to June. $1.25.

  Around the World Tour of Christian Missions. By W. F.
    Bainbridge. $2.00.

  Round the World Letters. By Lucy S. Bainbridge. $1.50.

D. LOTHROP & CO., Boston, publish the most Popular and Valuable
Sunday-school Books, including the celebrated Pansy and Prize
Books, and send catalogues Free.

The _Congregationalist_, one of our leading papers, says:

¡°D. LOTHROP & CO.¡¯S Magazines for Young People are not only pure
and educational in the best sense, but they are MOST POPULAR in the
language.¡±


                            WIDE AWAKE

                      SENDS GREETINGS TO THE

                    Whole World of Young Folks,

and promises such a store of treasures as an immense amount of
money can procure from best Authors and Artists, who are working
bravely for our young folks.


                            WIDE AWAKE

Greatly enlarged, is only $2.50 a year.


                       Little Folks¡¯ Reader,

75 cents a year. The LITTLE FOLKS¡¯ READER is a sixteen
page quarto, _exquisitely gotten up in every detail of letter press
and illustrations_.


                            THE PANSY,

A Pictorial Weekly Paper for Young People. Edited by Mrs. G. R.
Alden, author of the Pansy Books. 50 cents a year.


                             BABYLAND,

50 cents a year. _It is full of large, gay pictures sweet little
stories and jingles, and very funny drawings for copying on slates._

Send subscriptions to

                   D. LOTHROP & CO., PUBLISHERS,
                  32 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                            Father Kemp

Originator of the world-renowned ¡°Old Folks Concerts,¡± and
proprietor of the popular Boot and Shoe Store, 1,090 Washington
street, Boston, testifies by the following letter in the benefit he
received from using Hood¡¯s Sarsaparilla.

                               BOSTON, Mass., Jan. 16, 1882.

GENTLEMEN.¡ªYour preparation has done so much for me that I cannot
refrain from sending you my simple, unsolicited testimony. In my
travels through this country and Europe, and giving two concerts
per day for more than twenty years, I found at last my health
became so impaired that I had to give it up. That was fifteen years
ago. Since that time until last summer (when I commenced taking
Hood¡¯s Sarsaparilla), I had scarcely seen a well day. Dangerous
symptoms with constant roaring in the head, abscesses forming,
with fearful suffering until they would break, and then only a
temporary relief until another would form. My legs from the ankle
to knee would swell and turn black; in fact, I suffered all that
man could suffer and live. I consulted the most eminent physicians
in the country and could get no relief. A friend prevailed on me
to try your preparation. I did so. Result, to-day I am a well
man: no pains or ails, and can do as much work, feel as fresh, as
forty years ago. I am well known through the country, and would be
willing to answer any letter of inquiry as regards my case.

                          Respectfully yours,      FATHER KEMP,

  Originator of the ¡°Old Folks Concerts,¡± and sixty-one years old.


                       Hood¡¯s Sarsaparilla,

Sold by all druggists. Price $1; six for $5. Made only by C. I.
HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                         NEW AND STANDARD

                           School Books

for every branch and grade of instruction. Full particulars given
in catalogues and specimen pages to any teacher. Among most recent
issues we call attention to

  Barnes¡¯ Primary Drawing Series               18 cts.
  Monteith¡¯s Popular Science Reader            80 cts.
  Woman¡¯s Pestalozzian French and German
    Books, each                                35 cts.
  Brief History of Ancient Peoples               $1.00
  Dr. John Lord¡¯s ¡°Points of History¡±             1.00
  Scarborough¡¯s Greek Lessons (by Professor
    of Greek in Wilberforce University)           1.00
  Carrington¡¯s Battle Maps of the Revolution      1.25
  Sill¡¯s Lessons in English                    60 cts.
  Ficklin¡¯s Elements of Algebra                80 cts.
  Supplementary Readers¡¯ Six Books, &c.

                              Address
                        A. S. BARNES & CO.,
               111 and 113 William Street, New York.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                             PAYSON¡¯S

                          INDELIBLE INK,

                  FOR MARKING ANY FABRIC WITH A
                      COMMON PEN. WITHOUT A
                           PREPARATION.


          It still stands unrivaled after 50 years¡¯ test.


                      THE SIMPLEST AND BEST.

Sales now greater than ever before.

This Ink received the Diploma and Medal at Centennial over all
rivals.

Report of Judges: ¡°For simplicity of application and indelibility.¡±


                            INQUIRE FOR

                      PAYSON¡¯S COMBINATION!!!

Sold by all Druggists, Stationers and News Agents, and by many
Fancy Goods and Furnishing Houses.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                           N.Y. WITNESS.


? There will be many important events occurring during the
coming year that you will not know about unless you take the
WITNESS. Do you know now, for instance, that a sober and Christian
young man, a private soldier of the U. S. Army, has been thrown
into prison and subjected to great privations and indignities by
his superior officers¡ªtreated worse than the miserable wretch
Guiteau¡ªfor writing a letter to the WITNESS¡ªa letter which is of
great importance to all young men and all parents? There are many
things published in the WITNESS that other papers dare not print,
for fear of offending some rich and powerful corporation, and so
losing their patronage.

                 The price of the WITNESS is $1.50
                  a year, post-paid; club price,
                      five for $6.00. Sample
                          copy sent free.

Ministers, Missionaries, Evangelists of all Denominations, and
Teachers can have the WITNESS for One Dollar a year.

                        JOHN DOUGALL & CO.,
                     New York Witness Office,
                17 to 21 VANDEWATER St., NEW YORK.


                 *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration]

=Case¡¯s School Furniture.=¡ªParties about to purchase School
Furniture are invited to correspond with us. Our work is all of
the most approved patterns, and is unequaled for strength and
durability.

=Camp¡¯s Outline Maps.=¡ªSet of 9 maps, with key. No. 1,
Hemispheres; No. 2, North America; No. 3, United States: No. 4,
South America; No. 5, Europe; No. 6, Asia; No. 7, Africa; No. 8,
Oceanica; No. 9, Physical World.

=Case¡¯s Bible Atlas.=¡ªEmbracing 16 full-page maps, quarto
size, beautifully printed in colors, covering the whole ground of
Biblical Geography; also 16 pages of Explanatory Notes on the maps.
Sent by mail on receipt of price; bound in boards, $1.; cloth,
$1.50. _Agents wanted._

Circulars sent on application.

                   O. D. CASE & CO., Publishers
                                AND
                  School Furniture Manufacturers,
                         HARTFORD, - CONN.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                          KELLY & JONES,

                   202 Greene Street, - New York

                       LOW AND HIGH PRESSURE

                               STEAM

                             AND OTHER

                         HEATING APPARATUS.


                      We make a Specialty of

             Steam Heating and Ventilating. Apparatus,
                      for Churches, Schools,
                   Public Buildings and Private
                            Residences.

Plans and Specifications of the latest and most approved methods
furnished on application.


Our apparatus is in operation in the following buildings:

Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn.; Atlanta University, Atlanta,
Georgia; Third Judicial District Court House, New York City; Museum
of Art, New York City; Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance Co.,
New York City; State College, near Bellefonte, Pa.; New York State
Reformatory, Elmira, N.Y.; Point St. School, Providence, R.I.;
Board of Education (Schools), Pittsburgh, Pa.; Van Wert Co. Court
House, Van Wert, Ohio; Mahoning Co. Court House, Youngstown, Ohio;
Washington Co. Court House, Washington, Pa.


                 *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: THE RISING SUN STOVE POLISH]

    For beauty of gloss, for saving of toil.
    For freeness from dust and slowness to soil,
    And also for cheapness ¡¯tis yet unsurpassed,
    And thousands of merchants are selling it fast.

    Of all imitations ¡¯tis well to beware;
    The half risen sun every package should bear;
    For this is the ¡°trade mark¡± the MORSE BROS. use,
    And none are permitted the mark to abuse.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                     ESTABLISHED THIRTY YEARS.

[Illustration: SMITH AMERICAN ORGANS ARE THE BEST.]

       *       *       *       *       *

                 _Catalogues Free on Application._

Address the Company either at

  BOSTON, MASS., 531 Tremont Street;
  LONDON, ENG., 57 Holborn Viaduct;
  KANSAS CITY, Mo., 817 Main Street;
  ATLANTA, GA., 27 Whitehall Street;
  Or, DEFIANCE, O.


                         OVER 95,000 SOLD.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                          JOHN VAN & CO.,

                         MANUFACTURERS OF

                           VAN¡¯S PATENT

                           WROUGHT-IRON

                              RANGES,

           For Hotels, Public and Private Institutions,
                       and Private Families,
                        in a great variety
                             of sizes.

[Illustration]

               HOTEL BROILERS, PORTABLE BAKE OVENS,

       Carving Tables, Laundry Stoves, Coffee and Tea Urns,

        And all kinds of Implements for Culinary Purposes.

         No. 10 EAST FOURTH ST.,    -     CINCINNATI, OHIO


This house has furnished the American Missionary Association, for
their Colleges, Ranges and other Kitchen Apparatus, also Laundry
Stoves.


       *       *       *       *       *


                       WEBSTER¡¯S UNABRIDGED.


The following, from Webster, page 1164, shows the value of its
illustrative definitions.

[Illustration]

=1=, flying jib; =2=, jib; =3=, fore-top-mast-stay
sail; =4=, fore-course; =5=, foretop sail; =6=,
foretop-gallant sail; =7=, fore-royal; =8=, fore
sky-sail; =9=, fore-royal studding sail; =10=,
fore-top-gallant studding sail; =11=, foretop-mast studding
sail; =12=, main-course; =13=, maintopsail; =14=,
maintop-gallant sail; =15=, main-royal; =16=, main
sky-sail; =17=, main royal studding-sail; =18=, main
top-gallant studding-sail; =19=, maintop-mast studding sail;
=20=, mizzen-course; =21=, mizzen-top sail; =22=,
mizzen-top-gallant sail; =23=, mizzen-royal; =24=, mizzen
sky-sail; =25=, mizzen-spanker.

The pictures in Webster under the =12= words, =Beef=,
=Boiler=, =Castle=, =Column=, =Eye=,
=Horse=, =Moldings=, =Phrenology=, =Ravelin=,
=Ships=, (pages 1164 and 1219) =Steam engine=,
=Timbers=, define =343= words and terms far better than
they could be defined in words.


                    New Edition of WEBSTER has
                  118,000 Words, 3000 Engravings,
                  4600 New Words & Meanings, and
                      Biographical Dictionary
                        of over 9700 Names.

? In meeting names, how frequently the thought, ¡°Who was he?
Where was he? What was he? When was he?¡± The =New Biographical
Dictionary= in Webster¡¯s Unabridged just answers these questions
in brief.


                           GET THE BEST.

IT IS THE BEST PRACTICAL ENGLISH DICTIONARY
EXTANT.¡ª_London Quarterly Review._

The Courts look to it as of the highest authority in all questions
of definitions¡ªMORRISON R. WAITE, _Chief Justice U.S.
Supreme Court._


                         GET THE STANDARD,

  =Webster¡¯s= is the Dictionary used                =W=
      in Govern¡¯t Printing office, 1881.
  =E=very state purchase of Dictionaries            =E=
      for Schools has been Webster¡¯s.
  =B=ooks in the Public Schools of the              =B=
      U.S. are mainly based on Webster.
  =S=_ale of Webster¡¯s_ is over =20= times the      =S=
      sale of any other series of Dict¡¯s.
  =T=HIRTY-TWO THOUSAND= have been put              =T=
      in the public schools of the U.S.
  =E=ach new edition has become more and            =E=
      more =The Standard=.
  =R=_ecommended_ by the State Supt¡¯s Schools in    =R=
      =36= States, and =50= College Pres¡¯ts


                      IS IT NOT THE STANDARD?

        Published by =G. & C. MERRIAM=, Springfield, Mass.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                    BALL¡¯S _HEALTH PRESERVING_

                              CORSET

                      SOMETHING ENTIRELY NEW

[Illustration: EVERY CORSET WARRANTED SATISFACTORY OR MONEY
REFUNDED]

By a novel arrangement of fine-coiled wire spring, which yield
readily to every movement of the wearer, the most =Perfect
Fitting= and comfortable corset ever made is secured.

Is Approved by the Best Physicians. For sale by all leading dealers.

                        Lady Agents Wanted.

                       Price by Mail, $1.50.

                       Manufactured only by

                        CHICAGO CORSET CO.,

                           Chicago, Ill.

               and FOY, HARMON & Co., New Haven, Ct.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                         ESTABLISHED 1780.

[Illustration]

Set Complete in Terry, $58. Set Complete in Plush, $64. Parlor,
Lodge and Church Furniture. No charge for packing. Sent for
Illustrated Catalogue.

                        SHAW, APPLIN & CO.,
                                      27 Sudbury St., Boston.


                 *       *       *       *       *


           BRAIN AND NERVE FOOD. VITALIZED PHOS-PHITES.


It restores the energy lost by Nervousness or Indigestion;
relieves Lassitude and Neuralgia; refreshes the Nerves tired by
Worry, Excitement, or Excessive Brain Fatigue; strengthens a
Failing Memory, and gives Renewed Vigor in all Diseases of Nervous
Exhaustion or Debility. It is the only PREVENTIVE of Consumption.

It gives Vitality to the Insufficient Bodily or Mental Growth of
Children; gives Quiet, Rest and Sleep, as it promotes Good Health
to Brain and Body.

     Composed of the Nerve-Giving Principles of the Ox-Brain
                          and Wheat-Germ.

          PHYSICIANS HAVE PRESCRIBED =500,000= PACKAGES.

              For sale by Druggists, or by Mail, $1.

            F. CROSBY CO., 664 and 666 Sixth Ave., N.Y.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                            ESTEY ORGAN

[Illustration]

                           J. Estey & Co

                          Brattleboro Vt.

As musical culture increases it demands in musical instruments for
home, church, or school, excellence in tone, tasteful workmanship,
and durability.

                  SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                         LESSON COMMENTARY

On the International Lessons for 1882. Covering not only the
lessons for the whole year, but the entire book of Mark, and
accompanied by the ¡°Revised Version Text,¡± a revised reprint of
the ¡°Cambridge Scholars¡¯ Commentary.¡± Prepared by G. F. Maclear,
D.D., and J. J. S. Perowne, D.D. Price, =10c.=, postpaid. Book
is put up in strong postal card covers. No similar work for less
than $1. Large sales are expected, and orders will be filled in
turn. We also publish a complete Bible Dictionary of two thousand
complete articles, 512 columns, and nearly 100 illustrations, for
10c., postpaid; The ¡°Teachers Compendium,¡± nine books on teaching,
in one; The ¡°Ideal Sunday-School;¡± ¡°Sunday-School Management¡± (a
choice book for teachers); ¡°Word Pictures¡± and ¡°Normal Half-Hours,¡±
each for 10c., postpaid. Address,

                          DAVID C. COOK,

                                        148 Madison St., Chicago.


                 *       *       *       *       *


                              BABCOCK

                               FIRE

                           EXTINGUISHER


                   A Sentinel that Never Sleeps.


                        SIMPLE!
                            EFFECTIVE!
                                   DURABLE!


                          S. F. HAYWARD,

                          GENERAL AGENT,

                     407 Broadway, N.Y. City.

[Illustration]


                 *       *       *       *       *


                     60,000 TONS USED IN 1881.

One ton will build two miles of staunch three-strand Barb Fence.
One strand will make an old wooden fence impassable to large
cattle. One strand at bottom will keep out hogs.

                   Washburn & Moen Man¡¯f¡¯g Co.,

                         WORCESTER, MASS.,

                         Manufacturers of

                    Patent Steel Barb Fencing.

[Illustration]

A STEEL Thorn Hedge. No other Fencing so cheap or put up so
quickly. Never rusts, stains, decays, shrinks nor warps. Unaffected
by fire, wind or flood. A complete barrier to the most unruly
stock. Impassable by man or beast.

No other Fence Material so easily handled by small proprietors
and tenants, or large planters in the South.

Shipped on spools containing 100 pounds, or eighty rods of
Fencing. Can be kept on the Reel for transient uses.

           CHEAPEST, BEST AND MOST EFFECTIVE OF FENCES.

Send for Illustrative Pamphlets and Circulars, as above.


       *       *       *       *       *




THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.

       *       *       *       *       *


AIM AND WORK.

To preach the Gospel to the poor. It originated in a sympathy with
the almost friendless slaves. Since Emancipation it has devoted its
main efforts to preparing the FREEDMEN for their duties as citizens
and Christians in America, and as missionaries in Africa. As
closely related to this, it seeks to benefit the caste-persecuted
CHINESE in America, and to co-operate with the Government in its
humane and Christian policy toward the INDIANS. It has also a
mission in AFRICA.


STATISTICS.

CHURCHES: _In the South_¡ªIn District of Columbia, 1; Virginia, 1;
North Carolina, 6; South Carolina, 2; Georgia, 13; Kentucky, 7;
Tennessee, 4; Alabama, 14; Kansas, 1; Arkansas, 1; Louisiana, 18;
Mississippi, 4; Texas, 6. _Africa_, 3. _Among the Indians_, 1.
Total, 82.

INSTITUTIONS FOUNDED, FOSTERED OR SUSTAINED IN THE
SOUTH.¡ª_Chartered_: Hampton, Va.; Berea, Ky.; Talladega, Ala.;
Atlanta, Ga.; Nashville, Tenn.; Tougaloo, Miss.; New Orleans,
La., and Austin, Tex.¡ª8. _Graded or Normal Schools_: Wilmington,
N.C.; Charleston, Greenwood, S.C.; Savannah, Macon, Atlanta, Ga.;
Montgomery, Mobile, Athens, Selma, Ala.; Memphis, Tenn.¡ª11. _Other
Schools_, 35. Total, 54.

TEACHERS, MISSIONARIES AND ASSISTANTS.¡ªAmong the Freedmen, 319;
among the Chinese, 28; among the Indians, 9; in Africa, 13. Total,
369. STUDENTS.¡ªIn theology, 104; law, 20; in college course, 91;
in other studies, 8,884. Total, 9,108. Scholars taught by former
pupils of our schools, estimated at 150,000. Indians under the care
of the Association, 13,000.


WANTS.

1. A steady INCREASE of regular income to keep pace with the
growing work. This increase can only be reached by _regular_ and
_larger_ contributions from the churches, the feeble as well as the
strong.

2. ADDITIONAL BUILDINGS for our higher educational institutions, to
accommodate the increasing numbers of students; MEETING HOUSES for
the new churches we are organizing; MORE MINISTERS, cultured and
pious, for these churches.

3. HELP FOR YOUNG MEN, to be educated as ministers here and
missionaries to Africa¡ªa pressing want.

Before sending boxes, always correspond with the nearest A. M. A.
office as directed on second page cover.


THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY.

We are anxious to put the AMERICAN MISSIONARY on a paying basis. We
intend to make it worth its price, and we ask our patrons to aid us:

1. More of our readers can take pains to send us either the
moderate subscription price (50 cents), or $1.00, naming a friend
to whom we may send a second copy.

2. A special friend in each church can secure subscribers at
club-rates (12 copies for $5 or 25 copies for $10).

3. Business men can benefit themselves by advertising in a
periodical that has a circulation of 20,000 copies monthly and that
goes to many of the best men and families in the land. Will not our
friends aid us to make this plan a success?

We nevertheless renew the offer hitherto made, that the MISSIONARY
will be sent gratuitously, if desired, to the Missionaries of
the Association; to Life Members; to all Clergymen who take
up collections for the Association; to Superintendents of
Sabbath-schools; to College Libraries; to Theological Seminaries;
to Societies of Inquiry on Missions; and to every donor who does
not prefer to take it as a subscriber, and contributes in a year
not less than five dollars.

Subscriptions and advertisements should be sent to H. W. HUBBARD,
Treasurer, 56 Reade street, New York, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *


ATKIN & PROUT, PRINTERS, 12 BARCLAY ST., N.Y.




Transcriber¡¯s Notes:


Corrected obvious printer¡¯s punctuation errors and omissions.
Inconsistent hyphenation retained due to the multiplicity of
authors. Period spelling (including Spokan) retained.

¡°Steet¡± changed to ¡°Street¡± on the inside cover. (56 Reade Street)

Missing ¡°a¡± added in ¡°adopt¡± on page 66. (adopt some such system of
giving)

Missing space added between ¡°weeks¡± and ¡°in¡± on page 73. (some
weeks in Fisk University)

¡°Talledega¡± changed to ¡°Talladega¡± in the Winsted entry on page 88.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The American Missionary -- Volume 36,
No. 3, March, 1882, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMERICAN MISSIONARY, MARCH 1882 ***

***** This file should be named 57510-0.txt or 57510-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/7/5/1/57510/

Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, KarenD and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by Cornell University Digital Collections)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
